--- 
title: "Priorities: Family and Career"
typo_id: 594
layout: post
---
We attend a weekly Bible study that meets in various people's homes.  There's about five families that come.  Tonight was our "Christmas Party".  What that means is that instead of just meeting for the study and prayer time, we had dinner together too.  It doesn't take long before these types of social events segregate into a "men's room" and "women's room".  I think the gals were talking at one point about "birthing war stories".  It didn't take long for the stray dad to hustle on over to the "men's room."
<p />
One of the topics we talked about was a quote one of my friends <a href="http://www.mikelwilliams.com/latest.html" target="_top">Mike Williams</a> recently told me, "It only matters if you care."  We were talking about our jobs.  As men, it's easy to get our sense of personal self-worth from our jobs.  Me? I'm a Linux Geek!  I work hard at staying up to date on all the GNU/Linux news.  I've learned all I can about programming and developing on the GNU/Linux platform (really just Unix in general).  The problem with that is the choices it forces you to make.  How much time are you willing to put into your career?  Are you willing to take job changes that might not be best for your family but better for your career?
<p />
Making the decision that you care more about your family than your career is a little hard.  Our society isn't really geared that way.  The work-place certainly isn't.  I think this year I'm going to make the conscience decision to care more about my family than my career.  I'm not certain what decisions that means I'm going to have to make.  I'm not certain how that will change me.  I know God wants me to be a good Father and Husband.  That's what I'm going to do this year.  If you have any input on this, add a note on my <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/FamilyBeforeCareer">FamilyBeforeCareer</a> page.  I know there are other Fathers out there who struggle with this.  Let me know how you cope.
