--- 
title: Waging War
typo_id: 599
layout: post
---
I've recently subscribed to Barry L. Davis' <a href="http://www.InJesus.com/Groups/Messages.cfm?GroupID=3A006RXH" target="_top">Daily Devotions</a>.  I think this is the first one I've recieved.  He discusses this passage from 2 Corinthians 10:3-5
<p />
<blockquote>
We are human, but we don't wage war with human plans and methods. We use God's
mighty weapons, not mere worldly weapons, to knock down the Devil's
strongholds. With these weapons we break down every proud argument that keeps
people from knowing God. With these weapons we conquer their rebellious ideas,
and we teach them to obey Christ.   2 Corinthians 10:3-5 (NLT)
</blockquote>
<p />
I don't have a copy of the New Living Translation (from which that quote is taken).  I'm a little bit unsure of some of their wording.  The connotation it gives me is that we wage war against people who have "proud arguments" and "rebellios ideas" in order to get them to "obey" Christ.  Barry rightly points out in his commentary that "No Christ follower that has a grip on reality would deny that we are in a constant spiritual battle with Satan and the demonic realm."  He immediately follows with the point of his devotion: "What is often denied by believers is the incredible power of God to defeat the attacks that come against us."  See what he's done here?  It's the same thing I've always done.  His statement seems to imply that God's power, while available to us, is for defensive purposes while the passage he quotes implies to me that God's power is for offense.  I'm going to discuss <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/WagingWar">WagingWar</a> more.  Come add your comments.
