--- 
title: What I did on my Christmas Vacation
typo_id: 591
layout: post
---
<p />
As I was packing presents in our car topper my neighbor says, "Either
you're heading out for Christmas or Santa just pooped on the top of
your Durango."  Yes, we loaded everything up (presents, luggage, toys)
and drove to Bangor, Wisconsin.  The trip went very well for putting
three little kids in a crowded car for 12 hours.  When I had checked
the weather, it said we should see snow most of the day.  That didn't
happen, but it was very windy.  Josh was very excited about going.  As
soon as he got up, he put his shoes and coat on.  We actually packed
the truck on Saturday morning (rather than Friday night).  So, it took
us about two or three hours to get ready to leave.  Poor Josh, he was
sitting around in his coat asking when he could go get in the truck.
<p />
Of course, packing makes me grumpy.  I say "of course", but I don't
really know why that is.  As a kid I remember long trips in the car.
I really dislike traveling in the car when it's so crowded.  As I'm
packing more and more stuff I get grumpier and grumpier.  I keep
thinking, "Why do we need all this stuff?"  On a philosophical side
note, I definitely have a love/hate relationship with material stuff.
I like to own nice things.  I like to have nice toys.  However, I
often feel more owned by them rather than vice versa.  I fantasize
about selling all my stuff and living in an apartment with just the
bare minimum (believe me, a laptop is <em>always</em> included in that "bare
minimum").
<p />
Carla is actually from La Crosse, WI and her parents still live there.
This trip we're staying with her sister, Lisa.  Between her two
sisters and us, there are eight kids running around here.  It's pretty
fun actually.  The kids all play (usually loudly), and we adults talk
and play cards.  It's great family time.
<p />
The only downside to this trip is that my nearly one year old
daughter, Tiffany, is going for an all time pooping record.  I think
she's averaging about five poopy diapers a day and another two or so
each night.  I don't know how such a little baby can produce so much
poop in so little time.  Of course she's not very excited about her
run for the record.  She's being particularly "complainy", not
sleeping very well, and generally just not the happy little girl she
usually is.
<p />
Saturday was actually my middle child's, Justin's, second birthday.
Carla and I were so geared up on trying to pack, get out of town, and
then make the trip to Wisconsin we totally forgot.  So the poor little
guy spent his second birthday with nary a word of it strapped into his
car seat for 12 hours.  He's not old enough to know when his birthday
is or be indignant about how it was spent; it's just the guilt that
Carla and I have about forgetting it and not doing anything for him on
his "big day."  
<p />
We had planned all along to have a party for him once we got to
Wisconsin.  Carla and Lisa did a great job making a "Thomas the Tank
Engine" cake.  We had spaghetti and cake.  Then Justin got to open
some presents from his cousins.  He was particularly happy with the
"Bob the Builder" figures that go on his train set.
<p />
Today we went to the mall for the kids to get their picture with
Santa.  Poor guy; I hope they pay him well.  As far as us, we paid $12
to immortalize Tiffany's tramatic experience.  The picture clearly
shows her screaming for all she's worth.  I guess that's as much of a
Christmas memory as any.
