--- 
title: My boy is growing up
typo_id: 586
layout: post
---
<p />
Last night after dinner I wanted to go get a movie from Blockbuster.
Josh had been suffering from the post-vacation cabin fever and wanted
to go.  I told him he could and to get his shoes on.  Well, he
couldn't find both of his shoes.  We both made a cursory look.  I
really didn't have any idea where his other shoe was.  After about 30
minutes of looking, I finally made the decision to go without him.
Was he ever mad!  Carla said that after I left he threw the biggest
temper tantrum: yelling, kicking, hitting, crying, you name it....  I
still feel really bad and wonder if I should have left him or not.
Carla says it's a good lesson for him in looking for things he's lost.
She has all kinds of problems getting him to find things.  Anyway,
that's not the real point of this blog.
<p />
During his temper tantrum Carla decides she's had enough and tells him
that he should go to his room until he's feeling better.  So, he
storms up stairs still yelling and crying.  When he gets to his room
he shouts, "No one can come in my room!  This is my room and you can't
come in!"  
<p />
So, here we are with that first utterance of that classic adolescent
phrase.  I have mixed emotions.  Obviously we need to work on how he
deals with anger.  The real kicker is the milestone this represents.
It's the beginning of things to come.  I worry about how Carla and I
will handle our kids becoming and being teenagers.  This milestone
shows that it's not as far off as we'd like to think.
