--- 
title: Spacial Computing
typo_id: 454
layout: post
---
I just read an <a href="http://arstechnica.com/paedia/f/finder/finder-1.html" target="_top">article</a> on <a href="http://arstechnica.com" target="_top">Arstechnica</a> about how John Siracus would go back to the old Mac OS 9 Finder and then go forward to an improved Finder for OS X.  I'm a little torn on this.  Being a GNU/Linux guy I've dealt with the command line "all my life".  Being an emacs guy, I use dired to get views of directories (what most other people call "folders").  However, I've wanted something better for a while.  I'm just not sure what that would be.  Siracus' point is that as humans we relate to things spacially; the location, color, and other visual cues tell us what an object is and does.  The canonical example seems to be light switches.  We can walk into a room and turn on the lights; but, we don't really think about it.  The switches are always in a similar location on every room in nearly any house.  After living in a house for a while, it's just "muscle memory" that turns lights on and off.
<p />
So how does relate to computers?  Siracus wants a one to one relationship between directories/folders and windows.  He wants those widnows to remember their individual customizations.  He wants a one to one relationship between icons and files.  He wants those icons to remember their individual customizations.  He also goes into some "new" features for file "browsing" to make managing information easier.  I guess it all can be summed up things should be the way you left them when you come back to them.  If you're browsing your home directory, close that window and then come back to your home directory it should be just as you left it (including the position on the screen, the size of the window, whether files are in a list, icons, or whatever).
<p />
So, why did I write this in the Emacs category?  I use emacs for nearly everything.  Emacs is definitely non-spacial.  Some people use a single frame (or window in normal speak) for all operations.  That one window can be used for file browsing, file editing, and much, much more.  I do sometimes get confused.  Via escreen I'm able to have virtual frames within a single frame.  This lets me have several tasks open at once with out loosing my specific configurations for those tasks.  Often I end up with the same task on different virtual frames.  On the other hand, I don't really want one frame per file or directory.  Right now I have over 75 buffers open.  I certainly don't want 75 windows open on my desktop.  The moral of the story is that I don't know the best way to manage files and folders.
