--- 
title: My Wish Come True
typo_id: 310
layout: post
---
I dislike Catsup.  I rue the day someone poured sugar on their tomato, smashed it up and said, "Let's give it to kids."  Of course, my kids love it.  Last night I was playing dad while Carla was out.  Justin and Tiffany were eating their chicken strips and fries while I was helping Josh with his Nintendo game.  The point is that I wasn't paying very close attention to Justin and Tiffany.  Well, it seems Justin through Tiffany needed more catsup; a lot more catsup.  I was alerted to the trouble by Tiffany crying her most sad and unhappy cry.  I went over to see what was up.  Tiffany's high-chair tray had this huge pile of catsup.  Her arms were covered in it.  Her face was covered in it. It was all in her mouth and she couldn't get it out.  She tried using her hands to get it out; but, they were covered in catsup.  She was a miserable little girl.  She looked like the main character in a "B" rated horror flick.  So, I cleaned her up and got her some juice to wash her mouth out.  The point of this story (and my hope) is that I think she got her fill of catsup.  My hope is that I may have one kid of the three that doesn't like the stuff.  Maybe this will scar her psyche just enough for her to swear off the stuff.
<p />
Of course, when I told Carla this story her first question (even though she was terribly sad for Tiffany) was, "Did you get a picture?"  I suppose it was a would have made a good  picture.  If I were a mother, I'm sure I would have taken it.  As a dad, my first goal was to stop the screaming.  The secondary goal of capturing the moment was far out of my mined.
