--- 
title: "Exodus: Gospel Acappella Music"
typo_id: 343
layout: post
---
Last night at church, we had John Edmerson as a guest speaker.  He put in a plug for his CD and I bought it.  I'm glad I did.  It's excellent.  There's only eight tracks and the last one is a very short reprisal.  I'm a little disappointed there's not more music.  However, what's there is very good.  Most of the tracks are longer than normal too.  The average song length (minus the reprisal) is about 4:31.  It looks like John either wrote or arranged all the music.  The group's name is "Exodus" and is made up of Terri Mays, Amy Johnson, Angela Williams, Lamont Robins, and John T. Edmerson.  Wayburn Dean does all the production for the CD and makes sings a solo on one of the songs.  The selection of music is really nice.  I guess it's what "Gospel" is all about.  Each song recognizes the hurt and struggle of life but also recognizes and give praise for the help and salvation we have through Jesus.  
<p />
It's really fitting.  John's lesson last night was on depression.  I think his CD goes along with that very well.  I've struggled with depression myself.  I know others who have too.  I found this CD encouraging and uplifting.  It's not "rah-rah" music that glosses over the reality of life; but it doesn't dwell on the suffering either.  It's soulful.  It acknowleges the problem of life and acknowleges the solution too.  His web site is <a href="http://edmersonmusic.com" target="_top">http://edmersonmusic.com</a>.  I tried to load it up, but it crashed Mozilla.  I assume you can buy his CD from there.  I encourage you to get this encouraging CD.
