--- 
title: Navpress Spiritual Growth Resources
typo_id: 364
layout: post
---
I'd like to take timeout from my normal blog postings to plug a particular publisher's web site and mailing lists.  I find <a href="http://www.navpress.com" target="_top">Navpress</a> to have excellent books for (as they put it) "spiritual growth".  Their titles are focused on being relevant in a modern society and geared towards always becoming better.  An excellent example of this is Eugene Peterson's "eminently readable modern paraphrase of the New Testament", <a href="http://www.navpress.com/Store/Product.asp?sku=1576831027" target="_top">The Message</a>.  As someone who's read and studied the Bible their whole life, I find <em>The Message</em> refreshing.  I can't count the number of times I've read something in it and thought, "Wow, what a clear and insightful translation."  The purpose of this blog isn't to plug <em>The Message</em>.  I'm just offering it up as an example of what Navpress does.  It's also a good example product because it also reflects their priority in a different way.  Other (not to be named) Bible publishers have really milked their products.  Navpress is no real exception; they still focus heavily on <em>The Message</em> as their cornerstone product.  What makes them different is their prices.  The above link is only $6.  Their compact leatherbound edition is only $18.  
<p />
Anyway, the point of this message... They have had a "News@Nav" mailing list for quite a while now.  I recommend it.  They only have a few messages a year and I always find something of value in them.  One of the two "gems" in this most recent message is the announcement of a "Small-Group &amp; Bible Study Ideas" mailing list.  As someone who routinely conducts Bible studies and leads small group discussions, I'm constantly on the look-out for ideas on how to communicate better and facilitate Bible discussions better.  I expect this mailing list will be a good resource.  If you want to join either mailing list, their sign up form is at the bottom of the left navigational area on their <a href="http://www.navpress.com/" target="_top">main page</a>.  
And now back to our regularly scheduled programming.
