--- 
title: More Bogofilter Results
typo_id: 527
layout: post
---
I'm still fairly pleased with using <a href="http://bogofilter.sourceforge.net/" target="_top">bogofilter</a> for spam filtering.  I haven't had any false positives for a long time (since the first day or so that I was using it).  This morning I got two spam messages in my inbox, but yesterday I didn't get any.  Over all, this is much better than the results I was getting with <a href="http://spamassassin.org/" target="_top">Spam Assassin</a>.  For whatever reason, Spam Assassin is getting lots of good press.  I just don't think it works that well.  Yes, it blocked lots of spam.  However, I rate those as either lazy or ignorant spammers.  Anyone who cared to can run their spam messages through public spam assassin server to test to see if it passes or not.  What's more, spam assassin gives you a nice little report on why the message is classified as spam.  A diligent spammer will just keep tweaking their message until it passes the tests.
<p />
There was a <a href="http://yro.slashdot.org/yro/03/02/09/1942207.shtml?tid=111" target="_top">thread</a> on <a href="http://www.slashdot.org" target="_top">slashdot.org</a> about Spam Assassin.  It was sparked by the NYTMag <a href="http://nytimes.com/2003/02/09/magazine/09SPAM.html" target="_top">aticle</a>.  Several people there said something along the lines of "I don't get much spam because I work hard to not publish my email address where spammers can get it."  The problem with that philosophy is that the point of email addresses is to make them public.  I agree with <a href="http://slashdot.org/~cicho" target="_top">"cicho"</a> in his <a href="http://yro.slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=53285&amp;cid=5268257" target="_top">post</a>, "I refuse on priciple, to obfuscate my email address; I refuse to gin in to spammers.  When people start to hide their email contact information en masse, then spammers have won and email has become useless."
