--- 
title: Legend of Zelda
typo_id: 459
layout: post
---
One of the many times I was in game shops looking at Game Cubes Josh was able to play some of the Zelda demo.  He really liked being a little boy that could fight monsters.  Of course, I'm familiar with the history of the Zelda series and have pretty high expectations for this one.  So, I went ahead and bought it this week when it came out.  I guess showing my ignorance of Nintendo games, I was disappointed about how much reading is involved.  At least when Josh plays, Zelda <em>is</em> a two player game!  Anyway, it's a fun game.  I like it.  Problem is that it's a little tough for Josh (especially no knowing what the dialogs say).  We played last night and did OK.  I took over the controls on the hard parts and he got to do lots of the other stuff.  
<p />
He wanted to play again today but I had some consulting work to do.  Since he was already familiar with the beginning stuff, I talked him into starting over.  He kept coming to me for help and I kept sending him away to "practice more."  Every so often I would go down stairs to check on him (at the times when he wasn't asking for help).  Yes, he complained quite a bit that I wasn't helping him.  When I did go down to see where he was, I tried to give him helpful tips without doing it for him or taking over.  The moral of this post is that Josh has done very well today!  He was able to learn all the lessons with the sword at Orca's hut and earn his own sword!  He was able to figure out how to get the shield from his Grandmother!  He was able to complete the swinging and jumping across the platforms on the pirate ship with Nikki!  I really am proud of him.  Not so much because he can play this game.  I'm really proud of him because he kept at it and practiced.  At this age he's wanted stuff done for him and given to him.  This is something he's done almost all by himself.
<p />
When I was a little bit older than him my mom had bought one of those marble/maze games.  It was a wooden box with a lid that rotated on two axes.  There were two nobs the caused the lid to tilt either forward and back or right and left.  The challenge was to take the marble and roll it around this maze on the lid.  The hard part was that there were holes all over the lid.  So you had to carefully roll the marble around the holes while completing the maze.  It was pretty hard.  This was the first game I remember ever really getting into.  I would practice and practice.  My mom thought I wouldn't be able to get it done because it was too hard.  I can still remember how proud I was when I finished the maze.  I hope this is something similar for Josh.
