--- 
title: My friends, the Ratts
typo_id: 426
layout: post
---
When my parents were young and living in Dallas, TX their best friends (much like the <a href="http://www.lathi.net/cgi-bin/blosxom.cgi/2003/4/30#Family_LowrysInCo" target="_top">Lowrys</a> are to us) were Tom and Vickie Ratts.  As normal, they parted ways; but (not as normal), they've remained good friends.  Their kids are about Angie and my age.  I went to college at <a href="http://www.oc.edu" target="_top">Oklahoma Christian</a> with their middle child, Todd.  So, Tom and Vickie, Todd, and their younger son, Eric, all live in the Denver area.  Last night I drove down to have dinner with them.  Unfortunately, Erik was unable to come due to some emergency at work; however, Todd was able to make it.
<p />
It was so nice to see them again.  I think the last time was pretty much when Carla and I were married over 11 years ago.  I must say, it didn't look like any of them had changed a bit!  They protested, but I (and my 50 pounds since getting married) have changed physically much more than they.  Anyway, we had dinner at Abalaba's (or something similar) "Mediterranean" restaurant.  It turns out this pretty much meant it was Lebanese.  I had some really good lamb shish-kabob.  I was only able to show them pictures of the kids using my laptop.  I felt really geeky whipping it out to use as a slide-show.  I hadn't gone through the latest pictures and filtered any out.  So, I had to just skim through what I had looking for good ones.  I appreciate them being patient with me while I did so.  
<p />
After dinner we drove up to their house.  I have this really strong memory of visiting the Ratts while they lived in Memphis.  Tom took us back to his "study" where he had an Apple computer hooked up to his keyboard synthesizer.  He was able to compose music this way and mix multiple signals to form a complex harmony.  I was probably about seven or eight.  I don't really remember much about what he was actually doing.  What I remember was how excited Tom was about it and how cool I thought it was he was able to use a computer this way.  At the time I'm not even sure I had a computer yet.  I think I was still going to friend's houses and typing in BASIC game programs from the back of magazines to play.  While we were in the kitchen I relayed this memory to them.  Todd quietly got up and asked me to follow him.  There in their new house was a very similar "study" where Tom had two keyboards, a big stack of complicated looking mixing equipment and that same what turned out to be an Apple ][+!  He wasn't still using the Apple, but couldn't stand to part with it.  Tom said he had too much data for it that he couldn't figure out how to get off of it.  Until he could figure out what to do with that old data he would keep the Apple (and maybe longer after that).
<p />
Their house has what is the most grand view of any residence I've ever seen.  It may even be a better view than any public place I've been.  I imagine that's not true, but it is close.  Their house is perched precariously on the side of one of the moutains in the Rockies.  Looking out their large livingroom window you can see for miles and miles nothing but moutainside and trees.  If you looked straight forward you wouldn't think there was anyone else living in Colorado.  It was simply magnificent.  Vickie said they bought the view and the house just came along with it.
<p />
So far, my visit to Colorado is going very well.  If I could get work out here (competing with the other 10,000 unemployed engineers already here) I would definitely move.  The interesting thing is that both Todd and Tom and Vickie (who attend two different churches) said they really enjoyed their respective churches.  They sited many efforts to reach out to their community and an active membership.  This sounds like a pretty different story than what the Lowrys told me.
