--- 
title: "\"Business is Toying With a Web Tool\""
typo_id: 384
layout: post
---
Amy Cortese has written an article on the <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/" target="_top">New York Times</a> about the use of <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2003/05/19/technology/19NECO.html" target="_top">Wikis in the workplace</a> (sorry, you'll need to register with NYT to read the article).
<p />
<blockquote>
The creative anarchy of the wiki is the philosophical inverse of conventional corporate
  groupware software. Groupware's highly structured rules and processes do not always reflect
  the way people really work. Employees often ignore costly corporate-sanctioned software and
  revert to informal social networks: whether simply e-mail or impromptu water-cooler
  discussions.
<p />
  ...
<p />
  Denham Grey, the production manager at Composite Tech, says the wiki has become a central
  repository for information that formerly was shared only in an ad hoc way through e-mail or
  face-to-face encounters. The wiki, he says, is making it possible to build an "informal
  corporate memory."
<p />
</blockquote>
<p />
Personally, I find a lot of value in Wikis.  I can think of two highly successful wikis that I participate in: the <a href="http://www.emacswiki.org/" target="_top">Emacs Wiki</a> and the <a href="http://www.cliki.org/" target="_top">Common Lisp Wiki</a>.  I have a Wiki at work.  It's been pretty hard getting people to use or understand it.  My hope is that it will become our "corporate memory".  Thanks to <a href="http://www.raelity.org/archives/computers/internet/wiki/wikis_take_manhattan.html" target="_top">rael</a> for the link.
