--- 
title: "\"Antwone Fisher\""
typo_id: 336
layout: post
---
Carla rented <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A271085" target="_top">Antwone Fisher</a> for us to watch tonight.  She says she's seen the trailer for it, and I vaguely remember it as well.  We're both <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=B74843" target="_top">Denzel Washington</a> fans.  He both directs this film and has a supporting actor role.  It's the autobigraphical story of a young man's self discovery.  Antwone is an orphaned boy abused by his foster family.  He ends up in the Navy with "anger management problems."  Denzel Washington plays the psychiatrist assigned to work with him.  In the end, Antwone finds within himself a calmer self with much more self-esteem.  It's really the story of a boy overcoming the odds to become what we might call "normal."  Carla and I both really enjoyed the story.  Antwone's past is revealed bit by bit; really it's revealed as the character in the story is able to deal with each bit.  For his first screenplay, it's a wonderful told story.  Considering most of what comes out of Hollywood, it's a wonderful story.  By nearly any standards, it's a wonderful story.  In the end notes, Antwone says it took him over a year to write and 41 revisions.  Anyway, it's definitely a movie worth seeing.  
<p />
Carla and I both had the same feelings.  The film made us want to adopt a child to "save" one from "the system."  We've both talked about adopting from time to time.  I can't imagine us really doing it.  The cost of adopting is so high (or rumored to be so).  Plus, our lives are so chaotic right now.  I can't imagine throwing more into the mix.  Maybe we'll address this again once we can cope with our own lives.
