--- 
title: Interland Sucks
typo_id: 308
layout: post
---
My partner and I bought a dedicated server from Communitech a couple of years ago.  We had nothing but good experiences with them.  Most of that was due to having an account represenative.  We had our guy we could call up when things got sticky.  He helped us.  He knew us.  Life was good.  Then Interland bought Communitech.  In less than a year we've had more than a handful of times with multiple hours of downtime.  They are organized so poorly.  It took them months and months before they even had a good handle on where our server was.
<p />
This morning my server went down at about 8:30am EDT.  When I called technical support I heard a recording saying the NOC <em>lost power</em> for a few seconds causing the servers to crash.  Let me repeat that.  The <em>NOC lost power</em>.  Did I miss it?  Did the entire Southeastern region of the United States loose power for a couple of days?  Was there some nuclear strike that melted Atlanta?  How could a NOC <em>loose power</em>?  So I'm trying to get an ETA for when the server will be back up.  I wait on hold for 40 minutes.  Listening to things like "check our web site for support information" and "Interland is the number one hosting company".  After 40 minutes on hold the phone rings.  I think, "Cool, I'm next in line."  The phone rings for 10 minutes.  At this point I <em>couldn't</em> hang up.  I'd waited so long; I just wanted some ETA to tell my customers who use my server as a mail/web/e-commerce server.  
<p />
The tech asks me my domain.  I tell him.  He asks me to spell it.  I do.  He says...  wait for it... "Yep, you're one of the ones still affected."  What's my ETA?  He doesn't know.  What does it mean "the ones still affected"?  He doesn't know.  Why am I still down if the power only went out a few seconds?  He doesn't know.  How many more servers are in the queue to be brought up before mine?  He doesn't know.  So I ask, "I've been on hold for the better part of an hour with the hope of getting an ETA and you have nothing to tell me?"  He says... wait for it... "Well, we will get your server back up."  As if there were some possibility they wouldn't.
<p />
Another half hour later my partner calls.  He only has about 15 minutes wait.  Without attempting to talk with the poor tech who answers the phone he asks for the supervisor on duty.  Within another 15 minutes the server is back on line.  So, that's another four hours of downtime and more than a little bit of frustration.  This story isn't the worst of my Interland technical support experiences.  It's my typical experience.  I haven't had one positive incident with Interland.  Every time I've gone down it's been for multiple hours at a time, tech support has been non-responsive, and we have to start walking up the management chain to get things done.
<p />
If you're one of my customers, I'm sorry.  I should have moved our server months ago.  As soon as I can I will.  Interland sucks.  A kitten dies every time Interland gets a new customer.  Don't kill the kittens.  Find another ISP.
