--- 
title: Grandparent's Weekend
typo_id: 528
layout: post
---
My mom and dad came up from South Carolina this weekend.  Dad's retired and Mom took off Friday.  They left on Thursday afternoon and drove up to Asheville, North Carolina and then drove the rest of the way in in Friday.  They got to our house at about 6:00pm.  We had dinner.  They kids played.  Mom had gifts for the kids.  It was a nice night.  
<p />
Saturday I got up early (like 7:45am) and took the boys to get Dad's car washed.  It's a fairly new car and he was nervous about driving it through the snow, sand, and salt on Friday.  He asked me, "Do you think any car washes will be open while it's this cold?"  I managed to get back to the house by 8:30 and start breakfast.  I fried some sausage, bacon, and some eggs.  We finally got to eat at about 10:00.  Meanwhile the kids are really enjoying Grandma and Grandpa.  Dad did a great job playing with the boys and doing what they liked to do.  
<p />
After Tiffany had a nap, we took them to Chucky Cheese's pizza and game room.  Of course, the kids had a ball.  On a side note, I don't know why we don't have more in-door playground type places here in Cincinnati.  Chucky Cheese's is OK.  However, ours isn't that great.  There aren't really that many games; most of them are broke; and most of the stuff is geared to older kids.
<p />
Carla fixed my mom's special recipe for broiled shrimp for dinner that night.  None of the kids would eat any shrimp; but, we adults sure enjoyed it.  More talking and playing before bed time.
<p />
Sunday morning we got up and went to church.  Dad was anxious to get back on the road, so they left pretty much immediately after services.  Mom had to be back to work Monday morning.  So, they had about 20 hours in the car for about 15 hours with the kids.  Both of them seemed to think it was worth it.  I'm glad and grateful they came.  Even though it was a fast trip it was nice to get some time to catch up face to face and let the kids see them too.
