--- 
title: Where is it?
typo_id: 238
layout: post
---
The other day Josh bought himself one of those toy dart guns that shoots the rubber suction/stick-on dards.  Justin got one too.  We typically haven't bought the boys guns and knives to play with.  Of course, they just turn all their other toys into guns.  Anyway, we control these toys for a couple of reasons.  One is that I don't really want the darts lost.  The other is just general control over how rambunctious they get when playing with the guns.
<p />
On Wednesday morning Josh asked if he could play with his gun and I got them down from their "storage" place.  At one point in the morning I came downstairs from my office for a coffee refill.
<p />
Josh: "Daddy, do you know where my gun is?"
<p />
Me: "No, the last time I saw it was in your hand"
<p />
Josh [holding up hands]: "Do you see it in my hand now?  No.  Where do you think it is?"
<p />
Me [more than a little annoyed at his tone]: "The last time I saw it, it was in your hand.  I have no idea what you've done with it since then. It's not my job to keep up with your toys.  It's your job to find your toys when you loose them."
<p />
Of course, at this point I can see the gun on top of the TV.  But he was
being such a snot I'm wasn't about to tell him that.
<p />
Fast forward to this afternoon.  Carla had to go out and make some deliveries.  She left me to put Tiffany down for her nap.  For better or worse, all of our kids have had "their" blanket.  This afternoon I can't find Tiffany's.  I make about four passes around the house; each one more thorough than the last.  On my third pass, I stop Josh and ask him if he knows where Tiffany's blanket is.  
<p />
I should have been ready for it.  He puts his hand up to his chin and says, "Ummm.  The last time I saw it was... in Tiffany's hand."
