--- 
title: Vanilla Sky
typo_id: 478
layout: post
---
This <a href="http://imdb.com/Title?0259711" target="_top">movie</a> is probably the biggest surprise that I've seen so far this year.  The only reason I watched this was because I was at my hotel room and nothing else was on.  I thought, "this was a big box office movie... I'll watch it to see if it's any good."  The original trailers for this film didn't interest me at all.  It looked like your typical Hollywood love triangle/unrequited love movie.  It's true that both of those elements are in this movie; however, the typical Hollywood treatment of them ends in the first 15 or 20 minutes.  During the credits I saw that <a href="http://imdb.com/Name?Crowe,%20Cameron" target="_top">Cameron Crowe</a> directed it.  He also did <a href="http://imdb.com/Title?0181875" target="_top">Almost Famous</a>; which is another film on my short list.  If I had known that Crowe did this film, I probably would have taken another look at it.
<p />
I feel like I should give a plot summary, but I don't want to spoil the film too much.  I can certainly appreciate the problem the movie marketeers had with advertising this film.  Basically David Aames (played by <a href="http://imdb.com/Name?Cruise,+Tom" target="_top">Tom Cruise</a>) is a inherits 51% of a big New York publishing house.  He has everything and lives the "high life" of the super-rich.  This includes the beautiful girlfriend, Julie Gianni (played by <a href="http://imdb.com/Name?Diaz,%20Cameron" target="_top">Cameron Diaz</a>) whom he really treats poorly.  At this point I feel I should mention that I'm really not a Cameron Diaz fan.  I think she's usually stuck in films as a token gorgeous girl and that's about it.  However, this may be Diaz's best role yet.  Anyway, Dave meets a new girl, Sofia Serrano (<a href="http://imdb.com/Name?Cruz,%20Pen%E9lope" target="_top">Penelope Cruz</a>), at his party and <em>really</em> digs her.  Enter love triangle/unrequited love plot element.  At this point, Julie freaks out and drives her car off a bridge with Dave in it.  Julie dies and Dave is grotesquely disfigured (shattered arm and jaw).  About 20 minutes of the film have elapsed.  The rest of the film is really about Dave dealing with this twist of fate.
<p />
There is so much I thought I wouldn't like about <em>Vanilla Sky</em>.  Both Cuise and Diaz are actors in films I typically don't go in for.  the apparent plot is one that has no interest for me.  This review is like one big "however".  The real plot is about the humbling of a self-centered playboy.  The motif repeated throughout the film is "sweet and sour; you can't really appreciate the sweet without the sour."  There's really only one "nude scene" although there are several scenes of "intimacy".  There are also some really violent scenes.  There is lots of alcohol consumption and people behaving badly when they do.  The portrayal of David's disfiguring is quite graphic.  The social issues of someone grotesquely disfigured is handled frankly and harshly.  Even with all this, I still recommend <em>Vanilla Sky</em>.  It's a complex film that with some bizarre sequences and more than a few surprises.
