--- 
title: "\"The Matrix Reloaded\""
typo_id: 389
layout: post
---
As I <a href="http://www.lathi.net/cgi-bin/blosxom.cgi/Movies/WhichMovie.writeback" target="_top">mentioned</a> just prior, Carla and I went out last night to see <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A279420" target="_top">"The Matrix Reloaded"</a>.  I hadn't really seen a full trailer yet for the film and didn't really have that much of a picture of what the story was supposed to be.  Overall, I enjoyed the film.  The action and effects were fantastic.  Like <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A177524" target="_top">"The Matrix"</a> before it, there were film sequences I had no idea how they were done.  In particular, there was a highway chase scene where the camera was following the motorbike and basically passes right under a semitrailer.  It was seamless.  They also took "bullet time" to the next level with lager scenes taking advantage of it.  Also true to the first film, the story and characters were more complex than traditional action films.  One thing I felt a little overwhelmed with was the constant metaphysical references.  It's like the <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=B203462" target="_top">Wachowski</a><a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=B203463" target="_top">brothers</a> were trying to capitalize on the philosophical audience of the first movie but just ended up doing more and not necessarily better.  There has been more than a little <a href="http://www.yerot.com/~yerase/blog/blosxom.cgi/Movies/religionandthematrix.writeback" target="_top">discussion</a> about what "The Matrix" means.  "The Matrix Reloaded" doesn't really make any effort to clearify.  Frankly, I don't think the Wachowski brothers are trying to get <em>any</em> individual "message" out.  It doesn't seem to me that they are advocating any particular philosophy.  It looks like they are just trying to make as big a movie as they can that makes you go "hmmm."
