--- 
title: "Zelda: The Temple of the Earth"
typo_id: 414
layout: post
---
I finished the temple of the earth last night in Zelda.  I'm a little annoyed with Zelda.  It's somewhat difficult to explain to Josh all the references to "the gods" and "powers of the gods".  Also, the temple of the earth had some monsters in it that were pretty scary.  Justin kindof freaked out while he was watching Josh and I play.  The "theme" of the temple of the earth is pretty much "undead".  There's this tall monster that is some kindof blue weird thing that screams at you.  The scream makes your character all scared and you can't move.  While you're "paralized with fear" it comes up and grabs you and starts biting your neck like a vampire would.  There's also these giant skeleton creatures.  When you "kill" them they explode their bones everywhere but the head keeps jumping around.  If you don't kill the head then it will put itself back together.  To me this is a little more graphic than I'd like for the boys.  I guess it's my fault for having a five-year-old play and a two-year-old watch.
<p />
In retrospect, I think I was premature in buying the <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/GameCube">GameCube</a>.  I'm just not finding that many games I like for Josh and I to play.  What I want is something that is at least two player simultaneous play who's content is geared to young kids.  I have "Hot Wheels".  That's pretty fun for us to play.  Zelda is a lot of fun for me.  Josh really likes it too; it's just hard for him to play.  Oh well, live and learn.
