--- 
title: "\"Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker\" progress"
typo_id: 419
layout: post
---
I've pretty much decided to abandon my own zelda game.  I just don't have enough time to play with Josh and play by myself.  He and I played quite a bit this weekend.  We got all the way from the Deku tree to getting the Master's Sword.  We also visited two of the Fairy Islands and got the 1000 rupee purse and the 60 bomb bag.  I really wanted to get the larger arrow quiver too.  
<p />
I admit I had to cheat a little bit.  I got stuck a couple of times and looked for hints on the Internet.  I suppse I could have eventually figured that stuff out.  I thought it was OK for a couple of reasons.  First, I don't really think I'm teaching Josh to cheat.  This is subtle and probably not a good defense; but, he didn't know I was looking hints up on the computer.  He thought I just new this stuff and was "working" on the computer.  I know, that's pretty lame to depending on deception as a defense against teaching my five-year-old not to cheat.  My second defense is much stronger.  Josh has been playing this game for 41 days.  He really likes the game but is very frustrated he's not making progress.  It's really not his fault he's not making progress.  The game depends on you being able to read and get clues from the text.  He can only do well at the game when either Carla or I play with him.  In fact, he was able to reason out how to do several things this weekend that I was stuck on.  So, in essense, my first defense for cheating is based on deception and the second is based on guilt for not playing more with Josh.
<p />
To quote Westly and Fezzik (played by Andre, the Giant) in "The Princess Bride":
<p />
<blockquote><pre>
Man in black: Look are you just fiddling around with me or what?
Fezzik: I just want you to feel you're doing well.  I hate for people
        to die embarrased.
</blockquote></pre>
<p />
I just want Josh to feel like he's doing well.  Having him be stuck for a long time just because I'm stuck or can't play doesn't seem fair.
