--- 
title: Weekend Notes
typo_id: 237
layout: post
---
This has been a pretty busy weekend, but mostly enjoyable.  The biggest news is that we had Justin's 3rd birthday party on Saturday.  He really wanted a <a href="http://lathi.net/~carla/blog/20031121ngQi3Z.writeback" target="_top">Dora the Explorer party</a>.  We made some half-hearted attempts to change his mind, but ended up going with the Dora theme.  It was a pretty small party.  We invited our good friends Jill &amp; Joey Vicelli along with some other friends from church.  It turns out Wendy Hartberger was the only other one that could come.  We fixed a lasagna for lunch and everyone stayed for a very nice visit.  We don't get enough time with Jill and Joey.  They are the types of people that make us better by osmosis.  They are some of the best Christian people I know.
<p />
As with nearly every birthday party, Carla and I stayed up very late getting ready.  One of Carla's talents and hobbies is cake decorating.  This cake was one of her best.  I think that's because she pretty much designed it from scratch.  
<p />
She also got this Dora the Explorer bingo game to play at the party.  It only had four bingo cards and we were going to have at least six kids.  She wanted me to make copies of two of the cards.  My own sensibilities wouldn't allow me to do that.  Four of the kids would then have the exact same card (well, two sets of two kids with the same card).  Instead I decided to just make two extra cards.  My stupid scanner doesn't work with Linux, so I had to use my digital camera to take photos of the different squares on the bingo cards and then patch them together in the Gimp.  I was pretty pleased with the output, but it took me about two hours for the the two cards.  The first one took me about an hour and a half and the second only took another half hour.  Carla was getting pretty frustrated with me.  I just had to laugh though.  I knew it had taken me entirely too long; I was just unable to cut any corners on it.  Carla kept saying that it wasn't that imortant.  I have a hard time letting the details slide.  I thouht this was funny because I know this is one my best strengths and worst weaknesses.
<p />
The party ended up being pretty fun.  The kids are starting to get sick or already are sick or something.  Josh was pretty upset because he wasn't getting any say in what we were doing.  Tiffany and Justin were fairly cranky although Justin tried really hard not to be.  At one point we had to wait an extra five or ten minutes with all the kids around the table waiting on cake because Justin wouldn't stop crying.  Like I said, though, the part did go well despite all that.  The kids had a fun time playing together and with the new things.
<p />
We were all so exhausted, naps were definitely in order.  Unfortunately, the kids were in that funky "I'm too tired and exhausted to sleep" mode.  Carla and I ended up getting a couple hours sleep each, but in shifts.
<p />
After nap time, I went out to the garage to install Carla's Christmas present in her Dodge Durango.  Even though the truck is only five years old, the radio is kaput.  It was one of the cheap radio/cassette players.  What she really wanted was a radio/CD/cassette player.  What I ended up getting her was the <a href="http://www.crutchfield.com/cgi-bin/ProdView.asp?s=0&amp;c=3&amp;g=62700&amp;I=133DP383&amp;o=m&amp;a=0&amp;cc=01&amp;avf=N" target="_top">Panasonic CQ-DP383U</a> CD/MP3 Reciever that is <a href="http://sirius.com" target="_top">Sirius ready</a>.  Crutchfield had a deal going on that if I bought a sirius-ready receiver and an antenna they'd throw in a free sirius receiver.  Since this was the last weekend before our holiday trip to South Carolina I wanted to get the satellite radio installed so that we could listen to it while driving the 600 miles to my parent's house.
<p />
The install involved a roof-mount antenna and wiring that from the rear of the vehicle to the receiver under the front passenger's seat and then wiring that to the replacement receiver in the dash.  If I do say so myself, I did a really nice job.  None of the wires are exposed for little feet to trip on or snag (except right at the receiver unit under the seat).  Everything else is routed under the carpet and trim.  The whole job took me about six hours.  That included a significant amount of time to clean up some lingering water damage in the front seat area (sorry, I don't have time to go into that story).
<p />
The bad news is that Crutchfield didn't get me everything I needed.  They have a reputation for being very thorough and having top notch customer service and technical support.  They supplied me with the wiring harness, dash adapter plate, and vehicle specific installation notes.  However, they didn't notice that I needed a specific adapter between the satellite receiver and my antenna.  I went to Circuit City today to get one.  They knew exactly what I needed and had one in stock.  It took me less than a minute to connect it.  A short phone call later and I was listening to Sirius satellite radio!
<p />
Oh, while I'm doing a major dump of information, we got our first major snow here in Cincinnati.  I shoveled a little more than an inch off the driveway today.  It was a gentle introduction back into shoveling snow.  The kids are outside playing in it now.  My philosophy is that if you're going to live where it's really cold in the winter, you might as well get snow out of it!  Of course, the trick is to live somewhere that gets a fair amount of snow for playing, but not where it's terribly bitter cold (think Wisconsin).
