--- 
title: Power Out Again
typo_id: 295
layout: post
---
Ok, it freaks me out to loose power at night.  It's not like I'm afraid of the dark.  Quite the opposite.  I enjoy being in the dark.  I like to sleep in a really dark room.  When I work in the office in the evenings I just use a desk lamp rather than the overhead lights.  I think the difference is knowing I <em>can't</em> turn the lights on if I want to.
<p />
Last night I was working pretty late (like around 1:30am or so).  I have the window open in my office because I like the fresh air; particularly when the temperature's as comfortable as it has been lately.  I hear this wild rushing noise and look out the window.  The wind is blowing like I've never seen it blow before (this coming from a guy who's lived in Oklahoma).  I'm looking at my trees being bent over about 30 or 40 degrees.  The out of the corner of my eye I see sparks.  I look over to the West just in time to see a transformer blow up.  It looked like a Star Wars explosion.  It was streams of sparks blowing in all directions.  Then I see more sparks.  I turn my head the other way to see a second transformer blow a few doors down to the East.  Of course, the power's out.  The first time I notice this is from the beeping of my UPS on my firewall/fileserver.  My laptop is on battery power.  So, I shutdown all the computers and call the power company.  "I've just seen two transformers blow."  The woman on the other end of the phone is very pleasant for 1:30 in the morning, "Thank you for calling, we'll get someone right on it."
<p />
At this point, there's nothing really for me to do but go to bed.  Of course, I wake up Carla.  "I just saw two power transformers blow."  "Huh?  What do you want me to do?" "Be freaked out with me."  One of the boys wakes up distressed their night-light isn't on.  I go lay down with him for a while.  At least now I'm not freaked out alone.  I go back to bed and fall asleep.  Sometime this morning Josh comes in to complain the lights won't come on.  I don't have any idea what time that was.
<p />
By the time I finally got up there was power back on, but I can hear chain-saws working outside.  I turned on the TV for the boys and saw a little bit of the news.  It looks like a tornado came through our area.  There wasn't a tornado, but that's what it looks like.  The weather man is saying we had straight wind gust up to 100mph.  I can attest the winds only lasted about a minute or two.  West of here was hit harder than our area.  I guess they broke the wind some before it got to us.  I'm very thankful nothing worse happened to us.  The pictures on TV are horrible.  I guess if it really was a tornado the sirens would have sounded.  I would like to hope that's the case.  It all happened so fast.  I didn't think to wake Carla and take the kids to the basement.  We were all on the second floor.  That could have ended much worse.
