--- 
title: Let's make a deal!
typo_id: 421
layout: post
---
One of Carla's friends asked her what Carla thought God was trying to tell her right now.  Carla answered honestly that she though God was wanting her to have regular quiet time.  Carla's friend challenged her to get up just 15 minutes before the kids each morning to have her quiet time.  So, last week Carla got up 15 minutes before Tiffany does to spend in prayer and reading.
<p />
Carla tells me all of this and I'm quite impressed.  Getting up in the morning isn't something either of us do well.  I'm thinking of what a good idea this is.  So, I up the ante a little.  I tell her I'll make sure the kitchen is cleaned each night and coffee is ready if she'll get up at 7:00am with me so we can have quiet time together.  She's not very impressed with my offer.  I explained that I thought it would be very hard for me to have quiet time in the morning once Josh and Justin wake up.  When I'm up in the morning the boys want to be around me (and gladly so) unless I'm up in my office.  She reluctantly agrees.
<p />
So this morning we traumatize our boys by waking up and being downstairs before they get up.  Pretty much 7:30am on the nose, Josh peeks downstairs and promptly starts crying.  Several times Carla tells him to come into the kitchen.  He just sits on the stairs and crys.  I go pick him up and bring him in the living room.  He tells me he's sad because he wanted it to be morning now and not night time.  The poor kid thought it was still night time because we were up!  Justin's response was no less surprised although certainly happier.  I guess that just shows Justin has no compunction about getting up in the middle of the night.
<p />
Anyway, it <em>was</em> nice.  Carla and I got to sit at the table together with the kitchen totally clean, eat breakfast, sip coffee, read our Bible's and pray while the house was as quiet as the proverbial church mouse.
