--- 
title: My friends, the Lowrys
typo_id: 429
layout: post
---
Since I'm in Colorado this week, I took time to drive up to Ft. Collins to visit with the Lowrys.  They've just recently moved from Cincinnati.  They are one of Carla and my closest friends.  We were very sad to see them go (Curse this lousy economy!  Why couldn't he get a job here?).  Anyway, it was nice to see them starting to get settled in their new house.  It was very nice.  They thought it was "cozy".  Of course, it's still about 25% - 50% bigger than ours.  The kids have larger rooms than here.  The new kitchen in much bigger than what they had here with an island that has it's own tides.  Their living area is a smaller; however, I think what makes them feel particularly cramped is their master bed room and closet is considerably smaller than what they had here.  The good news is that they've already started making friends with their neighbors.  One of them in particular is looking to be a good friend.  Their neighborhood is very quiet.  That's the main thing they were looking for after living on the thoroughfare that was their street here.  The bad news is that they are having a hard time finding a new church.  With their kids at eight and six, they are justifiably concerned that the church give them the support they need in raising kids in this hedonistic culture.
<p />
Oh, more good news that I can't really share.  Watch <a href="http://prodigalgenerations.us" target="_top">this</a> space for details.
