--- 
title: What movie to see?
typo_id: 391
layout: post
---
Carla and I haven't had a babysitter for a very long time.  Looking back through my <a href="http://www.lathi.net/cgi-bin/blosxom.cgi/Movies" target="_top">movie notes</a> the last film we saw out was <a href="http://www.lathi.net/cgi-bin/blosxom.cgi/Movies/ShanghaiKnights.writeback" target="_top">Shanghai Knights</a>.  Hmm, well there was some discussion about which movie to see.  I suppose I should have checked those notes before we decided.  It could be argued that we have seen more of "my" movies at the theater than "her" movies.  Maybe I'll reorganize my movie journal between at theater, rentals, and on TV.
<p />
Anyway, she wanted to see <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A276085" target="_top">"Daddy Daycare"</a>.  I know mothers (particularly fulltime mothers) find it uproariously funny to see movies about how poorly dads would handle being with the kids all the time.  I, on the other hand, as a dad for whom keeping the kids by myself is somewhat of a challenge find it overdone, predictable, and just a little demeaning.  To put this in perspective why don't we see movies about inept women in the work place?  Because it's ok to make men look inept, but not ok to make women look inept.  All that having been said, I'll probably end up seeing this film.  I hope to rent it thought instead of "wasting" one of our nights out to see it.
<p />
I didn't really ask to see <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A279420" target="_top">"The Matrix Reloaded"</a>.  I just commented that when I pulled up my bookmark for <a href="http://netscape.digitalcity.com/cincinnati/movies/venue.adp?vid=883" target="_top">Showcase Cinemas - Kings Island</a> it only showed "The Matrix Reloaded".  I'm sure it was a glitch in their page.  It's actually not a very good page.  Anyway, I found a better page for <a href="http://www.movietickets.com/house_detail.asp?house_id=4033&amp;exid=nai" target="_top">Showcase Cinemas - Kings Island</a>.  I was actually suggesting either <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A276390" target="_top">"Anger Management"</a> or <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=A276340" target="_top">"Identity"</a>.  Carla was quite opposed to "Identity".  I don't usually go in for movies like that, but I really like <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=B16329" target="_top">John Cusack</a>.
<p />
Anyway, we ended up seeing "The Matrix Reloaded."  Carla says to me, "I love you, you owe me for that one."
