--- 
title: "\"The Banger Sisters\""
typo_id: 529
layout: post
---
Carla and I watched <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Title?0280460" target="_top">"The Banger Sisters"</a> (with <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Hawn,%20Goldie" target="_top">Goldie Hawn</a> and <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Sarandon,%20Susan" target="_top">Susan Sarandon</a>) last night.  I must admit I was expecting something different.  Throughout the entire film I kept thinking this was some horrible sequal to <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Title?0181875" target="_top">"Almost Famous"</a> (which stars Goldie Hawn's daughter, <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Hudson,%20Kate" target="_top">Kate Hudson</a>).  If you haven't seen "Almost Famous", it's about a teen-age kid who gets an offer from Rolling Stone Magazine to follow along with a band on tour to do a write up on them.  Hudson plays a "Band-aid" (their euphamism for a groupie).  <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Crowe,%20Cameron" target="_top">Cameron Crowe</a> both wrote and directed "Almost Famous".  Crowe has a history of writing for Rolling Stone himself.  The movie is somewhat autobiographical.  "Almost Famous" is an enjoyable film that fosters an easy nostalgia for an era of rock'n'roll days of old.  Yes, there is wanton drug and alcohol use.  Yes, there is certainly implied (and loosely depicted) sex.  "Almost famous" <em>is</em> a movie about behind the scenes of '70s rock'n'roll.
<p />
However, this is my bit on "The Banger Sisters" and not necessarily "Almost Famous".  "The Banger Sisters" is about two self-proclaimed groupies many years after their days of being a groupie.  Hawn is not quite over her days as a groupie; but Sarandon is trying to be.  They've been apart for almost 20 years when the film starts.  Hawn is at her wit's end with bills piling up and having just lost her job.  She decides to look up her old friend Sarandon who she knows is rich.  Along the way she picks up an aging neurotic (<a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Rush,%20Geoffrey" target="_top">Geoffrey Rush</a>) who is on a trip to "kill his father".  Sarandon is less than happy to see Hawn and Hawn can't bring herself to ask for the money (or accept it when offered) due to her "integrity".  So, Hawn shacks up with Rush until she can figure out what to do.  The rest of the movie is basically about Hawn trying to get both Rush and Sarandon to "loosen up" with either sex, drugs, or alcohol.  The movie ends with Sarnadon's daughter (who is valedictorian of her High School class) giving her graduation speech about how it's better to "be true to yourself" than to conform to other's expectations.  Everyone ends up happy and proud that they've all "loosened up" or "got real".  No mention is given to Sarandon's character probably would be a recovering alcoholic and the delima of drinking again.  The "improved" life of Sarandon's character is portrayed as being hollow and meaningless.  Only when she reverts back to the cliche of sex, drugs, and rock'n'roll is life better.
<p />
The difference between "Almost Famous" and "The Banger Sisters" is striking.  The tagline for "Almost Famous" is "Experience it. Enjoy it. Just don't fall for it."  The overall sentiment of "Almost Famous" is that the life of psychadelic rock'n'roll was empty and hollow and "The Banger Sisters" is the opposite.  In short, I wouldn't own either film.  Both have content I don't want to have as a permanent resident of my home.  However, I did enjoy "Almost Famous" and even recommend if it given the warnings of language, drug content, some brief nudity, and numerous references to sex.  I can't recommend "The Banger Sisters".
