--- 
title: Death is Common
typo_id: 538
layout: post
---
<a href="http://davenet.userland.com/" target="_top">Dave Winer</a> had this excellent comment to say in relation to the "Columbia Disaster":
<p />
<blockquote>
If television wanted to do us a real service they'd take the cameras into a nursing home or the pulmonary unit of a major hospital, right here in the US, and show people what dying is like in the world we live in. Some people don't know. I didn't until last year. The Shuttle astronauts were so lucky! They had amazing lives. They went to space. They were scientists so they knew it was risky. And they were lucky because they died quickly without much time for pain and long goodbyes. Yes it's sad they died. Yes. But it's also great that they lived.
</blockquote>
<p />
I have such a pessimistic view of this world.  There are lots of great things God has given us and lots of great things we have done.  However, lately I've been impressed by just how screwed up this place is.  Dave's take on death is similar to mine.  We're to live the best life we can while we have it.  By "best" I mean something specific.  How well do we love each other?  What kind of relationships do we have?  Jesus said:
<p />
<blockquote>
'Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heard, thy whole soul, thy whole mind.'  This is the greatest and foremost command ment.  And the second is similar to it: 'Thou shalt love thy fellow man as much as thyself.'  The whole of the Law and the Prophets is summed up in these two Commandments. -- Matt 22:37-40
</blockquote>
<p />
The "best" life we can live is measured by how well we follow those two commandments.  When we die (for those of us who will accept it) we go on to live in a "fixed" world; one that's not broken as this one is.  Yes, it's hard for those who love us to let us go.  As Paul said, "With me, to live is Christ and to die is gain." (Phil. 1:21).  In other words, while we're here we server but when the race is over we can rest.
