--- 
title: "\"Simone\""
typo_id: 516
layout: post
---
Carla and I rented <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Title?0258153" target="_top">S1mOne</a> last night.  It was odd.  There was very little "questionable material" in it.  <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Pacino,%20Al" target="_top">Al Pacino</a> did a good job acting (as did the rest of the cast; most notably including <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Ryder,%20Winona" target="_top">Winona Ryder</a>).  As a computer scientist, the idea is intriguing.  The premise is that an aging producer tries to replace an actress with a digital image.  He manages to fool a lot of people with this "Simulation One".  The fundamental premise falls apart though.  The only reason he's successful is because Simone does such an amazing job in her first film that everyone goes totally ape over her.  When I say "everyone" I mean <em>everyone</em>.  When I say "totally ape" I mean complete loss of faculties.  I told Carla the interesting thing is that the film was made at all.  Someone in Hollywood must have thought this was plausible at some point along the line.  Someone in Hollywood believes we as a culutre are that smitten by the Hollywood elite.  Of course, the whole film could have been a satire on Hollywood itself.  The director and writer <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Niccol,%20Andrew" target="_top">Andrew Niccol</a> could have been poking fun at the overblown self-importance of people in Hollywood.  I don't know which.  The film really says more about Hollywood culture than it does about computer graphics and most certainly more than artificial intelligence.  If you got any idea from the trailer that Simone takes on any artificial intelligence you were misled.
