--- 
title: Binary Search Debugging
typo_id: 550
layout: post
---
<a href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/" target="_top">Joel Spolsky</a> comes up with another good <a href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/news/20030128.html" target="_top">article</a>:
<p />
<blockquote>
<p>Something we had done since the last release of
<a href="http://www.fogcreek.com/CityDesk" target="_top">CityDesk</a> somehow caused our
publish times to increase by about 100%; on a particular large site we
use for stress testing it had gone from about a minute to about two
minutes.</p>
<p />
<p>The first thing I tried was a profiler:
<a href="http://www.compuware.com/products/devpartner/studio/" target="_top">Compuware DevPartner Studio</a>.
 Indeed this showed me where a <em>lot</em> of
bottlenecks are; that data will be useful to speed up our publish
times even more, but I really wanted to find&nbsp;the <em>specific bug</em> that I thought we had introduced which was slowing us down.</p>
<p />
<p>The next thing I tried was a method I learned from Gabi at Juno:
the old binary search method. Before we started work on this release,
publishing took 1'04". Today it takes 1'57". So I started checking out
old versions of the source from CVS by date, rebuilding, and timing
how long publishing took with each day's build. Here's what I
found:</p>
<p />
<p>As of May 1: 1'57"<br />As of April 1: 1'05"<br />As of April 15:
1'05"<br />As of April 22: 1'06"<br />As of April 26: 1'58"<br />As of April
24: 1'05"<br />As of April 25: 1'05"</p>
<p />
<p>Aha! Now all I had to do was run WinDiff to compare the source tree
from April 25th and April 26th, and I discovered four things that were
changed that day, one of which was a function that DevPartner had told
me was kind of slow, anyway. Within minutes I found the culprit --
that function was originally written to cache its results because it's
often called with the same inputs, and I had inadvertently changed the
cache key in one place and not another, so we were getting 100% misses
instead of 99% hits. Solved! Total elapsed time to find this bug:
about an hour. If your source code is much bigger than CityDesk,
builds and checkouts may be slow. This is as&nbsp;good a reason as any
to keep all your old
<a href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/fog0000000023.html" target="_top">daily builds</a>
 around.</p>
<center><font size="-2">&copy; 2003 Joel Spolsky</font></center>
</blockquote>
