--- 
title: "Cubix: Robots for Everyone"
typo_id: 345
layout: post
---
I rented <em>Cubix</em> from Blockbuster this weekend.  I had heard it was a multiplayer game designed for kids.  While it is a very fun game, it's not exactly what I was hoping for.  The story is that the bad guy, Dr. K, releases some solex on the town.  The solex causes the robots to become aggresive.  Your job is to go around and subdue all the robots.  You start out with Cubix as your robot.  As you subdue each robot it becomes part of your army of robots to help you subdue the other robots.  So the game is basically you going around town looking for robots infected with the solex.  The battles are pretty well done.  In stead of being real-time, they are turn based.  The challenge is in the targeting system.  Each turn it gets harder and harder to hit your opponent.  When you miss, your opponent gets to shoot at you until he misses.  There's some strategy involved in choosing which robot to use and which one-time-use upgrades to use.
<p />
But there's more than just battling robots.  Each area has a puzzel for you to figure out before you can move on.  Most of these puzzles are combinations of arranging boxes in the right way to allow you to jump from one area to another.  There are several variations of the theme.  Some boxes are color coded and you have to get them to the right place.  Some boxes roll or slide after you push them.  So, you have to get other things setup to block the moving boxes in the right way.  One nice feature is that you can reset the puzzle at any time with no penalty.  So, you are free to try as many different solutions as you want.
<p />
Josh really enjoyed the puzzles.  As the game went on, they became increasingly harder.  I think some of them would have been too hard if I hadn't been there to help.  The other problem is the targeting system during battle.  It requires you to pay very close attention and use split second timing.  It would have been nice if there were different levels of difficulty for this.  If the targeting were a little easier Josh would have really enjoyed it.  As it was, the game was fun but required me to complete the hard parts for him.  Also, the story mode is only one player.  Looking at the game-play, there's really no way to do multi-player.  They do have tournament mode and mini-games for multi-player though.  I can fully recommend this game if you're above about seven or eight.  <em>I</em> really enjoyed it.
<p />
I guess my quest for the perfect pre-school game continues.  What I want is something that a five-year-old can figure out.  It doesn't have to be simple for him, just something he can figure out.  Also, I really want something that isn't split-screen but has simultaneous multi-player.  What I'm thinking about is Gauntlet without the gore.  Gauntlet is excellent at promoting cooperation.
