--- 
title: So what's the solution to SPAM?
typo_id: 579
layout: post
---
My email is available from a number of places.  I subscribe to several mailing lists who's archives are publicly available on the Web.  I have made no effort to hide my email for the last four or five years.  The result is that I get lots of spam.  I'm using <span style='background : #FFFFCE;'><font color="#0000FF">SpamAssasin</font></span><a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/edit/Main/SpamAssasin?topicparent=Main.WebHome">?</a> with some success.  However, I still get about 10 - 15 SPAM messages actually in my "INBOX" a day.  What is the solution to eliminate SPAM?
<p />
I have been thinking about setting up a <span style='background : #FFFFCE;'><font color="#0000FF">BayesianFilter</font></span><a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/edit/Main/BayesianFilter?topicparent=Main.WebHome">?</a>.  Bayesian-type filters are pretty cutting edge AI for categorizing text.  However, I've found two links today to "refute" that.  One is from <a href="http://cyberlaw.stanford.edu/lessig/" target="_top">Lawrence Lessig</a> and the other is from <a href="http://www.jerf.org" target="_top">Jeremy Bowers</a>.
<p />
I respect Lessig a great deal for his thinking as a lawyer who understands technology, privacy, freedom of information, consumer rights, and how to balance all that.  He <a href="http://www.cioinsight.com/article2/0,3959,533225,00.asp" target="_top">believes</a> that we should have a national law for accurately labeling all email and a bounty for anyone who tracks down spammers violating the law.  The details of his proposal (and his willingness to <a href="http://cyberlaw.stanford.edu/lessig/blog/archives/2003_01.shtml#000787" target="_top">forfeit</a> his job as a Stanford law professor if he's wrong) aside, he is proposing a legal solution (naturally as a lawyer) to a human problem rather than a technical or mechanical solution.
<p />
I don't really know Jeremy Bowers from Adam Smith; I found a link on <a href="http://slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=49955&amp;cid=5030257" target="_top">slashdot</a> to an <a href="http://www.jerf.org/irights/2002/11/18.html" target="_top">essay</a> he wrote.  His essay recommends two solutions that actually address the human nature of SPAM rather than the mechanical nature of recognizing what spammers product (ie SPAM).
<p />
So what's the solution?  I don't really know.  I agree with Jeremy that Baysian-like filters are the nuclear weapons of spam fighting.  There doesn't seem to be much to do if baysian-like filters don't work against spam either.  I also agree with Lessig that spam is fundamentally about people that don't respect others.  So I guess I'm concluding that we should go ahead and use the nukes just to prove that no amount of sophisticated mechanical filtering will eliminate SPAM.  One of two things will happen.  First, it could actually work.  We could actually get filters smart enough to defeat SPAM.  Alternatively, it won't work.  Once everyone agrees that no amount of mechanical filtering will eliminate SPAM we can move on to designing a new system that does work.
