--- 
title: I have a mission
typo_id: 430
layout: post
---
Something occured to me today while corresponding with an old friend of mine.  He was one of my closest friends I had during college.  We took all our classes together and did all of our homework together.  We were pretty much inseparable.  Since college we've hardly kept in touch at all.  I'm not exactly sure why not.  I think the reason is the way our lives diverged.  Neither of us stayed in engineering.  He's now in medical school and I'm a software guy.  The thing we mainly had in common (electrical engineering) was gone from both of us.  I think another problem is that there was some embarassment that the lives we thought we were going to have (being highly successful engineers respected for how smart we were) turned out to pretty much be hogwash was also part of it.  I, for one, wanted to know what was going on with him.  It was just hard to use the phone to keep up.  That was too time consuming.  Email is definitely an improvement.  The problem with email is that it doesn't scale well.  I've got a lot of friends that are spread out all over the country (world).  I don't really want to write a message with a huge "To" list.
<p />
Web logs (also called blogs, on-line diaries, on-line journals, or other similar things) is a way to help.  This page you're reading now is a web log.  I've got software that allows me to add these little updates pretty easily throughout the day.  When something notable happens, I write about it here.  Then all my friends can read about it.  Reading this page allows anyone to keep up on the little day to day things that happen to me.  Is this stuff earth-shattering? No.  Am I a "journalist" by keeping an on-line journal?  I don't think so.  What I'm really trying to do is give a glimpse into my life to people who may care.  Another thing I'm trying to do is keep from forgetting "memorable" stuff.
<p />
So, what's my mission?  I want to get as many of my friends "of old" to start an on-line journal.  A few minutes each day or every few days is an easy way to keep a lot of people in touch.  I think it's kind of like a fax machine though.  If you're the only person in the world who has a fax machine, it's of questionable value.  The value of a fax machine is augmented by the number of people who have them.  I think web logging is the same way.  The more people you know who keep on-line journals the stronger your overall community will be.  I have so many friends I miss dearly.  I'd love to read their daily log of stuff happening to them.  I don't think web logging replaces email.  It really places email in context.  I can communicate meaningfully with my friends only if I know what's going on in their lives.  The web diaries give me that knowlege.
<p />
If all this sounds good to you I encourage you to go to <a href="http://www.livejournal.com" target="_top">http://www.livejournal.com</a> and start an account.  They have free and "premium" accounts.  The guys who run LJ are really a good group.  They have made building communities to a science.  Their software is easy to use and looks nice.  Oh, and if you do decide to start a diary be sure to email me and let me know.  I'll quickly add it to the list of web logs that I regularly read.
