--- 
title: Take a tip from the experts
typo_id: 332
layout: post
---
<blockquote>
"I always use Ultimate."<br />
-- Mark C., driving since 1987
</blockquote>
<p />
I saw this quote on a sign over a BP gas pump.  There was a picture of
a nice looking, somewhat older man playing with his dog.  I'm not exactly sure what the kindly folks at BP think of us as their customers.  There are so many things wrong with this picture, I don't even know where to start.  The first thing that jumped out at me was that I, in fact, have also been driving since 1987.  <em>I</em> don't always use Ultimate.  What does that mean?  Is there dissent among the experts?  That leads to the second observation.  What about driving for 16 years qualifies a man (or woman for that matter) to have an expert opinion about the qualities of various grades of gasoline and the effect they have on your engine?  Is it that he plays with his dog?  Brian Sherrell was with me when I saw the sign.  He was wondering if they've been selling Ultimate gasoline since 1987.  If they haven't, Mark C. is a lier.  Maybe that's why Mark C. wasn't willing to share his whole name.
<p />
So who is this sign targetted towards?  Has BP's marketing research shown that there is a large percentage of their customers who pull up to the pump and wonder which grade of gasoline to use?  Are they looking for the "swing purchase".  I can envision some customer saying, "I'd like to use Ultimate, but it's so expensive.  If there was just someone handsome and trustworthy around here to encourage me to buy it I would.  Well look at this handsome man in the picture.  <em>He</em> always uses Ultimate.  Maybe if I start using Ultimate now I'll be as handsome as him when I'm his age."   Puh-lease.
