--- 
title: "Debugging: 9 Indispensable Rules for finding Even the Most Elusive Software and Hardware Problems"
typo_id: 359
layout: post
---
I just finished read the book by <a href="http://www.debuggingrules.com" target="_top">David J. Agans</a> with the extremely long title I'm too lazy to retype.  Despite that less than glowing introduction, I found the book enjoyable.  That's right.  I actually used the word "enjoyable" with respect to a book on debugging.  He starts off by establishing his credentials as a master debugger with lots and lots of years of experience and then categorically states his nine <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/DebuggingRules">DebuggingRules</a> are all you need to debug any problem.  The book then spends a chapter on each rule breaking it down and explaining how to apply it.  He makes heavy use of "war stories" to illustrate his point.  This is really one of the two things that make the book enjoyable to read.  The first is his good sense of humor spread liberally throughout the book.  But it's really enjoyable to read about problems other people have had and how they solved them then see a surgeon closely examine exactly what happened and how they found the solution.  I think I paid the full cover price of $22 for the book.  It's taken me three days of reading it on and off while waiting for things to compile and such.  It's easy to read, has lots of good stories, and you walk away with a better understanding of the debugging process.   All in all that's a win.
