--- 
title: The Price on Love
typo_id: 469
layout: post
---
This morning while I was getting dressed, Josh came up to show me "something cool."  Apparently on Sesame Street or something they were showing some American Sign Language.  He had just learned how to do the sign for "friend" and wanted to come up and tell me in sign language that I was his "friend".  Cool.  So he goes into the other room for a minute and comes back having made up some of his own sign language.  He points at himself then takes his two index fingers and makes a heart out of them and then points to me.  He says that means "I love you".  "Do you know why I love you, Daddy?"
<p />
This is a pretty good time for me to insert some backfill.  Josh and I have a pretty good relationship.  He loves to spend time with me and play games and stuff.  Honestly, I struggle with spending time with him.  I <em>want</em> to spend time with him.  I <em>want</em> to play games with him.  I'm just caught in the middle.  Between my full-time job and my consulting, plug house-hold chores, I just don't have that much discretionary time.  I try to spend as much with Josh, Justin, and Tiffany as I can; it's just hard to find the time and to know what to do when we do get time.  All that said, when Josh tells me he loves me it's always special to me.  I wonder if (or when) I'll screw that up and that could change.
<p />
Ok, that's one piece of backfill you need to know.  The other is that this weekend I finally talked Carla into letting me get Josh a Nintendo Gamecube.  It's something I've wanted to do for a while.  Carla's always argued that Josh is too young or that we didn't have the extra money.  She's also just not that big a fan of video games.  Of course, I grew up with video games.  Admittedly, I was about 10 when I started playing.  Still, I've always had a lot of fun playing video games.  Josh has enjoyed for a while now playing games on the computer.  However, like everyone else, Josh's computer crashes often, is slow, and hard to use.  Josh obviously copes pretty well with it.  Anyway, I've thought for a while that a (given Nintendo's commitment to children's games) a Gamecube would be something that Josh and I would enjoy together.  So, I came up with some "extra" money and got a Gamecube.
<p />
So, "do you know why I love you, Daddy?"  You never know what the kids are going to say when they open with a question like that.  However, I wasn't that surprised when he said, "because you bought me my Gamecube!"
