--- 
title: "\"Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker\" Status"
typo_id: 432
layout: post
---
For no more time than I get to play, I've been pretty pleased with my progress.  The bad news is that Josh wiped my game while I was in Cleveland last week.  That means I had to start over.  When I was at Blockbuster I picked up a new memory card for $5.  I've been trying to teach Josh about saving games, why you want to save your game, when's a good time to save your game, etc.  He's not really getting it.  He just associates saving his game with when he has to quit playing.  This is actually the second time he's wiped my game.  I figure $5 isn't too high a price to pay to remove a frustration between Josh and I.
<p />
Unfortunately, my schedule has been unusually busy for the last several weeks.  My <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/CurrentProject">CurrentProject</a> is starting to wind to a close just as quick as I can get the work done (and not soon enough for my client).  So, I haven't been able to play "Zelda" as much with Josh.  This frustrates him to some degree.  Playing the game requires quite a bit of reading.  I didn't realize how important reading was for <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/GameCube">GameCube</a> games until I got one and started playing with Josh.  In retrospect, this would have been a good reason to wait a couple more years before getting the GC.  Since , I haven't been able to play with him, he hasn't been able to move forward in the game very much.  He doesn't really know where or what he should be going or doing.  He's good at starting over and playing the parts he knows about.  He's pretty good about exploring new areas as he starts over.  He keeps getting stuck when he's supposed to find the password from the Pirates.  He knows he needs the password.  He knows where and how to type in the password.  What he doesn't know is how to get the password or recognize a password if he saw one.  I hope to finish the work on my <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/CurrentProject">CurrentProject</a> this week and be able to help him more when I get home from my <span style='background : #FFFFCE;'><font color="#0000FF">trip</font></span><a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/edit/Main/DiaryCommute?topicparent=Main.WebHome">?</a>.
<p />
As an asside about this password business, Josh is trying hard (without really realizing he's doing this) to develop a keen sense of humor.  He's always looking for things that might be funny.  He'll try them out on Carla and I. "You know what, Dad, ..... Isn't that funny?"  Sometimes he's not sure if it's funny or not.  It's like he suspects it's funny but wants some confirmation.  Sometimes he's sure it's funny and can't keep from laughing himself and wants others to laugh with him.  All that said, here's the asside.  Out of the blue while we're in the car driving Josh says, "You know what would be funny Dad?  I think when I get home I'm going to play Zelda and use 'password' as the password for the Pirates.  That would be really funny if the password were 'password'."  I'm not sure why he thought that would be funny.  I, on the other hand, thought it was hilarious that a five-year-old saw how ridiculous it was to use a password that was so easily guessable.  If I could get Josh to understand how passwords are really used he would probably think it was funny how many people used 'password' as their password.
