--- 
title: Sure, I hate spam.  What about kids?
typo_id: 351
layout: post
---
<a href="http://www.theregister.co.uk" target="_top">The Register</a> clearly has a soft spot in its collective heart for children.  They run an article a week about either the aggressive prosecution of child pornographers or the effects of the Internet on children.  Today's article reports on a survey of children and <a href="http://www.theregister.co.uk/content/55/31103.html" target="_top">how they feel about spam</a>.  The short of it is that 80% of surveyed children say they get inappropriate spam every day and it makes them feel "uncomfortable and offended".  The authors of the survey, Symantec, warn that parents should discuss this with their children and help explain what spam is.  The survey further revealed that a large percentage weren't sure whether spam was bad or good.
<p />
Here's my advice on the Internet at large and children: white-lists.  The Internet is a very large place with lots of unsavory places.  It's impossible to keep up with where all the bad places are.  Instead, it's much easier to keep up with where the good places are.  I don't have general recommendations for software; however, I know you can either buy, write, or download software that will prevent your computer from visiting sites that aren't on an approved list.  The same can be done for email.  There are many solutions now for challenge-response email filtering.  This type of filtering basically puts all unknown email on hold.  It then immediately sends out a message saying essentially, "if you're human, resend the message and I'll let you through".  The thought is that spammers don't have the software sophisticated enough to meet this challenge with the proper response.  Thus, only legitimate mail makes it through.  For kids, I might take it a step further.  Instead of automatically allowing the response through, I might have the response come to the parent's account.  Then the parent can do something to determine if this is a friend from school or some 40-year-old man living in his parent's basement posing as a friend from school.
<p />
Either way, it'll keep out the spam for a while.  I think eventually the spammers will get smart enough to figure out how to meet this challenge-response system.  Is there no good long term solution to spam?
