--- 
title: Farmers Waiting for the Harvest to Ripen
typo_id: 575
layout: post
---
I'm really enjoying <a href="http://www.InJesus.com/Groups/Details.cfm?GroupId=3A006RXH&amp;CFID=1962103&amp;CFTOKEN=7715498&amp;UCD=10k" target="_top">Daily Devotions by Barry Davis</a>.  Some days are "ho-hum" others are really good.  <a href="http://www.InJesus.com/Groups/ViewMessage.cfm?MessageId=OA007CS2&amp;GroupID=3A006RXH&amp;CFID=1962103&amp;CFTOKEN=7715498&amp;UCD=t1f" target="_top">Today's</a> is on the passage in James 5:7-8
<p />
<blockquote>
Dear brothers and sisters, you must be patient as you wait for the Lord's
return. Consider the farmers who eagerly look for the rains in the fall and in
the spring. They patiently wait for the precious harvest to ripen. You, too,
must be patient. And take courage, for the coming of the Lord is near.   James
5:7-8 (NLT)
</blockquote>
<p />
As a kid I never understood this.  It reminds me of the story of the
preacher talking about Heaven and he asks, "Who wants to go to
Heaven?"  Most of the congregation raises their hand except for one
guy.  The preacher asks him about it and the guy says, "I thought you
meant right now."  As a kid, a teenager, and even just seven to 10
years ago I thought this life was pretty good.  I didn't think about
the Lord's return.  When other's talked about it, I just thought that
since it had been such a long time since His return had been promised
it would be a long time still before He came.
<p />
I don't think the last five years have been particularly hard.  Yes,
I've had significant personal struggles.  I don't think anyone who's
been married 10 years with three kids lives life without some degree
of strife, setbacks, and disappointments.  Those struggles have been
hard; but, those struggles alone aren't what makes me yearn for the
Lord to return.  I certainly look forward to the Day when loving each
other is easy; when temptations by Satan are a thing of the past; when
joy and happiness permeate our beings.
<p />
But what really makes me <em>yearn</em> for His coming is the injustice of
the world; on nearly every scale.  Although this is "old news," the
atrocities in Rowanda where people are wholesale slaughtering each
other.  The mess in the Middle-East where peace doesn't seem like it
can ever come.  The global disregard for life and human rights
violations.  Trivial by comparison, but the annual loss of freedom here
in the US and elsewhere.  The gradual collection of power by a <em>very</em>
small handful who have demonstrated a disregard for others.  The greed
that permeates our society.  The corruption that permeates politics;
to the point that TV thinks an honest politician is novel enough to
make a show about one.  What really disappoints me about all this is
the seeming lack of ability to do anything about it.
<p />
I wish I could find a reference for this, but I'm often reminded of
C.S. Lewis' comment on this subject.  You can look around this world
and see great things: the beauty and grandeur of nature, acts of total
compassion for others, the innocence and joy of children.  Mostly what
these things point to is the tremendous potential of this world.  But
underneath it all it's clear this world is broke.  It's been
fundamentally corrupted in a way that we, as part of the world, can't
fix.  The only <em>real</em> fix can come from the One who made it.
<p />
<blockquote>
He who testifies these things says, "Yes, I come quickly." Amen! Come,
Lord Jesus. Rev 22:20 (WEB)
</blockquote>
<p />
I guess I wouldn't make a very good farmer.  I'm more like Inigo
Montoya, "I do not suppose you could speed things up? ... I hate
waiting."
