--- 
title: Spousal Faux Pa or Big Hit?
typo_id: 401
layout: post
---
I got my wife a vacuum cleaner for Mother's Day.  Granted, it's a <a href="http://www.dyson.com/homepage.asp" target="_top">Dyson</a>.  This is supposed to be much better than your average vacuum cleaner.  It's certainly orders of magnitude better than the one Carla and I bought when we were first married and living in the <a href="http://www.oc.edu" target="_top">Oklahoma Christian Univ.</a> married housing.
<p />
Carla has been complaining about our vacuum for quite a while.  She's been wanting to buy a steam cleaner.  Then she says, "Why have a vacuum cleaner and a steamer when we could just have a Kirby?"  So now she's talking about an <em>expensive</em> vacuum cleaner.  Our friends, the Lowrys, had a steam cleaner.  That was the only thing saving our carpets from our kids.  Now that they are gone our carpets have gotten progressivly worse in a very short period of time.
<p />
For better or worse, what I wanted to get Carla was a refrigerator.  Ours is <em>always</em> very full.  I thought getting a new one and keeping the old would help off load that.  I was just going to go get a new refrigerator.  But, Carla had been talking about a vacuum for such a long time, I thought I would give her the choice.  So, we went out shopping for refrigerators.  While at <a href="http://www.bestbuy.com" target="_top">Best Buy</a> we saw this Dyson vacuum cleaner.  The (non-commissioned) salesman did such a good job pitching the dyson Carla decided she wanted it more than a Kirby or a refrigerator.  It's actuall less than the Kirby as an added bonus.  Carla was jumping up and down, doing the "dance of joy" happy about getting it.
<p />
We bought it Friday night.  Saturday we used it.  Carla insisted on being the first to use it.  So, I let her vacuum about half of the living room.  Then I took over (I actually do most of the vacuuming.  Does this make the gift self-serving?).  I just couldn't stop vacuuming.  It was picking up so much stuff!  I just kept going and going.  It was adictive.  I was overwhelmed with the need to have <strong><em>clean</em></strong> floors.
<p />
I don't know if buying her a vacuum cleaner for Mother's Day will eventually come back to haunt me.  Her sister, Lisa, was shocked that I would do such a thing.  I realize it's certainly not very romantic.  I also realize it has certain chauvinistic overtones.  However, she seems happy.  According to Tim Tripp, a friend from church,  in "men's speak" doing well can be translated as, "My wife is happy; I've set a good precedent for Father's Day; I haven't broken the bank."
<p />
By the way, I got the refrigerator too.
