--- 
title: Easter Festivities
typo_id: 438
layout: post
---
This was a pretty quiet Easter for us.  Carla always likes to make a trail of eggs in the house from the kid's rooms down to their baskets.  She leaves their "egg hunting" baskets (not to be confused with their "gift receiving" basket) outside their bedroom door.  This year she made individual trails for each boy.  We woke up to the "kerplop" sound of plastic eggs landing in a plastic basket.  We got up pretty quick to see Josh follow his trail of eggs and find the gifts in his basket.  The main thing we got him was a normal sized skat board with a fighter jet on the bottom.  Carla, Josh and I were all down stairs when we heard the tell-tale "kerplops" of Justin waking up.  Kids love easter eggs.  I think Justin's word for the day was, "open".  He'd bring an egg over and plead, "open," then consume the candy inside.
<p />
Carla tried to get some <span style='background : #FFFFCE;'><font color="#0000FF">EasterPictures</font></span><a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/edit/Main/EasterPictures?topicparent=Main.WebHome">?</a>, but Josh kept making funny faces until she gave up.  He wasn't doing it on purpose.  He just totally forgets how to smile in a normal way when you purposefully sit him down to take his picture.  It's like he has some internal sensor that says, "This is an important picture, don't screw it up."  Of course, with that kind of internal pressure and Carla saying, "Josh, smile right!" he's bound to screw it up.
<p />
Later in the day we had Dave and Shaun Taliber and their two girls come over.  I thought I was going to grill some meat but my decrepit grill wouldn't stay lit in the wind.  I'm need to order some replacement parts to get it up and grilling again because a deck without a grill is just a big piece of wood (of course, it's not like I have a deck; I'm just trying to stress the importance of grilling out).  Even with my personal failing to cook meat, we had a good time just hanging out.  The weather was perfect.  We had an egg hunt outside and the kids really enjoyed it.  We kept them pretty late at the house and thoroughly enjoyed their company.
<p />
The Taliber's are moving to Atlanta this summer.  It's a shame we didn't spend more time hanging out until recently.  We've been friends with them for years.  We see each other at church and say, "hi," and visit some.  We've been in small group together a while back.  I guess the last two years have been pretty hard on Carla and I.  It's been all we can do to keep up with the two small children.  I finally feel like I can see the light at the end of the tunnel though.  
<p />
I know we have a long way to go before the kids leave home.  I'm not even looking forward that far.  I'm just looking to the day when it's not so much work to load the kids up and go out as a family.  I'm looking forward to resuming our social life of spending time with friends that doesn't take an hour to get ready and having to be home by 7:30 for the baby's bed time.  I'm looking forward to being over at friend's houses and not having to watch everything the baby is doing for fear they will tear something up.  Tiffany's walking really well now.  She doesn't run or jump, but she can navigate a room pretty well.  She's just starting to get "handsy" about grabbing everything in sight.  She also has a pretty bad temper when things don't go her way.  However, this stage is pretty short and I think the stress of going out is about to decrease significantly.
<p />
The flip side of all this is the age of their independence is the end of the age of cuddliness.  Tiffany doesn't really ike to cuddle.  She likes to be held, bug she doesn't cling to you.  It's like she doesn't really relax.  I'm not sure I can describe it.  I think she's learning to cuddle.  It's like she doesn't know how best to take advantage of the intimate lap time but is figuring it out.  Justin loves to cuddle with you.  There's very little as statisfying as sitting in my easy chair with him curled up in my lap.  Thankfully Josh still likes to be in my lap too.  I worry that about the time I start figuring out how to interact with Josh he'll be tired of me being around.  I'm doing my best to show him my love and appreciation and spend good time with him.  I always fear that what I'm able to do isn't enough though.  Maybe someday Josh will read this and be able to tell me what I should have done.  Maybe in reading this he'll know better what he should do with his kids.  The cool thing is that he tells me all the time how much he loves me and how I'm such a good friend for him.
