--- 
title: "Progress on \"Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker\""
typo_id: 456
layout: post
---
I'm really playing the game in parallel.  Josh and I play and then I play my own game later.  So, yesterday I managed to kill the "boss" at the forbidden fortress, see my sister and the other girls in jail, and then be forcibly removed by the big bird.  At that point, I let Josh take over.  He managed to buy the sail for the little boat and did some sailing on the ocean.  He got to the island of the dragon (forgot it's real name), but hasn't found the Islanders to learn how to talk with the Dragon.
<p />
This game is <em>really</em> fun!  I enjoyed the Outset Island and the Forbidden Fortress, but the sailing on the ocean was cool!  Also, I experimented briefly with using the Wind Waker Wand to conduct music.  Wow was that cool.  It's hard (as much as I love music and singing, I strugle with timing and rhythm.  I'd never make a good drummer.) but really cool.  I hope Josh is able to grasp how to use the wand to conduct music.  There's a little "metronome" across the top.  It's got about 20 dots in a horizontal line.  There is a yellow dot that goes back and forth on this line of dots in time with the music.  You're supposed to wave the wand in time with this moving dot.  In addition, you're supposed to move the wand in the proper direction based on what the timing scale is.  In other words, for 3/4 time you have to move the wand up, down, right.  For 4/4 time you move the wand up, right, left, down.  You can also do 6/4 time, but I don't know how.  Anyway, cool game and I hope Josh perseveres to learn how to play it.
