--- 
title: Why haven't I been blogging lately?
typo_id: 319
layout: post
---
The long and short of it is that I've been preoccupied with stuff I don't want to make public.  I'm basically working two jobs.  I have a full-time programming job and I have a consulting gig.  Both are taking a lot of time up.  It's simply not that prudent to talk about work stuff on this blog.  Likewise, I'm not going to talk about details of my consulting gig here either.  One of my worst traits is my ability to effectively manage time.  I easily get distracted and have a hard time finishing projects.  I'm (nearly) always on the look-out for ways to improve my concentration, task estimation skills, and time management skills.  One of the things I've whacked while I've been under the gun is time spent doing "extra" things: email, news, IRC, blogging.  Anyway, I'm about to surface again.  Short one or two issues, I've "finished" my big project at work.  I've only got a page or two left for this new web-site I'm doing too.  Of course, I've felt for nearly a months or so that "this week was the week" I was going to finish both big projects.
<p />
I have done some interesting things I can share.  I went to visit my parents in South Carolina.  I talked about sending the boys to visit with them.  The week of July 28 through August 2 Carla, Tiffany and I went to visit and pick the boys up.  It was a good trip.  As always, I'll try to get some pictures up.  I'm feeling pretty guilty about not getting pictures up.  I have some very good ones on my hard disk.  I just haven't uploaded them to the server or formatted them.  Even still, I did get some pictures up of <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/KieraElise">KieraElise</a>.  That's the first-born daughter of our good friends <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/RonBlankinship">RonBlankinship</a> and Heather.
<p />
Anyway, sorry for keeping everyone in the dark.  I guess I should write up all the stuff that's happened to me.  It's good catharsis to write.  I don't want to forget this stuff.  It's good history.  If you're interested in the details, go ahead and email me about it.  I don't think this stuff is too personal to share, just too personal to share publicly.  I suppose it's possible to setup a blogging category that is password protected from public access.  I'll "add that to my todo list" (that's a euphemism for "wouldn't it be nice if I had time to work on something like that but I know I probably never will").
