--- 
title: "\"We are the masters.\""
typo_id: 277
layout: post
---
I read an <a href="http://www.artima.com/intv/ruby.html" target="_top">interview</a> with Yukihiro Matsumoto, the designer of the <a href="http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/" target="_top">Ruby</a> programming language.  It's fairly short and really only talks about language design philosophy.  There were several good sound bites.  This was my favorite:
<p />
<blockquote>
... computers don't mind if I must make effort to communicate with
them or if it is easy to communicate with them. They don't care if I
put the numbers of instruction byte sequences in a file and feed it to
them to run, or if a very high level language generated the
instructions. The computers don't care. We humans care about the
effort we pay. Often people, especially computer engineers, focus on
the machines. They think, "By doing this, the machine will run
faster. By doing this, the machine will run more effectively. By doing
this, the machine will something something something." They are
focusing on machines. But in fact we need to focus on humans, on how
humans care about doing programming or operating the application of
the machines. We are the masters. They are the slaves. -- Yukihiro Matsumoto
</blockquote>
<p />
Makes me want to learn Ruby.  Actually, I've thought about learning Ruby several times.  Another plug in its favor is that the <a href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/" target="_top">Pragmatic Programmers</a> also recommend Ruby.  Their <a href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/ppbook/index.html" target="_top">book</a> is one of my favorites.
