--- 
title: Separation Anxiety
typo_id: 324
layout: post
---
This last weekend I drove down to Knoxville, TN to meet my parents.  They drove up to Knoxville from their home in South Carolina.  I'm planning on taking a whole week's vacation down at their place at the end of the month.  One of the things they like to do is take the boys off our hands for an extended visit.  That's the real reason I went to Knoxville: to give the boys to Grandma and Grandpa.  Honestly, Tiffany is just too young for them to have all three kids.  The boys will end up being with my parents for two weeks before Carla, Tiffany and I get down there.  It'll be three weeks total by the time they get home.
<p />
So, who's having separation anxiety?  It's not Joshua or Justin.  It sounds like they are having a great time playing with their cousins in SC: lots of activities, a trip to the beach, fun swimming nearly every day.  The biggest fallout is Tiffany.  She's not really walking around asking for Josh or Justin.  Instead, she just seems to be having bad day after bad day.  I think she's spent more time crying the last few days than she normally would in a couple of weeks.  At this age, it's tough to know exactly what kicks off bad days.  Some days are just days of misery for little kids that involve lots of crying whose only solution is constant attention.  Sometimes they want to be held and sometimes they just want to be upset.  The point is that I can't directly attribute Tiffany's string of bad days to the boys being gone; however, it sure seems more than a coincidence.
