--- 
title: Life or Something Like It
typo_id: 504
layout: post
---
The other film we watched this weekend was <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Title?0282687" target="_top">Life or Something Like It</a>.  I thought the casting for this was nearly perfect.  <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Jolie,%20Angelina" target="_top">Angelina Jolie</a> has no trouble fitting into the character of Lanie.  I also really enjoyed <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Shalhoub,%20Tony" target="_top">Tonly Shalhoub</a> as Prophet Jack (this is the guy from that funny show, <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Title?0312172" target="_top">Monk</a>).  The leading man is <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Burns,%20Edward%20(I)" target="_top">Edward Burns (I)</a>.  I recognized him, but couldn't tell you what he's done without looking it up.  Besides the good casting and directing (by <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Name?Herek,%20Stephen" target="_top">Stephen Herek</a>) I thought the story was quite good.  It's "real".  The only thing that forces you to suspend disbelief is Prophet Jack.  He's a street bum that prophesies things like afternoon traffic jams, baseball scores, and the occational celebrity's death.  That's where Jolie's character comes in.  She's an aspiring TV journalist doing everything she can to "make it to the networks".  To get their her producer teams her up with Burns because he's the "best camera man in the business".  Jolie does a bit with Prophet Jack and he tells her she has about a week to live (along with a few other sports tid bits).  Burns plays a guy who's good at what he does but has more "earthy" priorities: he like to take time off work, doesn't get too caught up in himself, and loves to spend time with his son (even though he's divorced).  Prophet Jack's warning of her death serves as a wake up call to Lanie.  The rest of the film is the re-evalution of her priorities.
<p />
Contrasted with <a href="http://www.lathi.net/cgi-bin/blosxom.cgi/2003/2/24#Movies_ServingSarah" target="_top">Serving Sarah</a> this is a great film.  Maybe that's why I enjoyed it so much.  The scripting was better, the directing was better, the acting was better, the "chemistry" was better.  However, I wouldn't classify this film as a romantic comedy.  Heh, maybe that's why I enjoyed it more (No.  I do enjoy romantic comedies when they are good.  I will say that my level of "good" in this category is higher than Carla's).  Yes, there's romance in it.  Yes, there's even some comedy.  Carla and I both laughed at several scenes.  However, I'd rather classify this as a "romantic drama".  The title is quite apt.  The film's really about life or at least something like life.
