--- 
title: Father's Day Recap
typo_id: 344
layout: post
---
Yesterday was a great day for me.  I couldn't have dreamed a better start to the day.  Carla had some responcibilities that required her to get to church quite early.  She got up <em>much</em> earlier than usual.  The kids got up at about the same time.  She got them all dressed and ready for church and the diaper-bag ready to go.  By the time I came downstairs, they were all ready and eating breakfast.  The kids were all excited with cards for me.  Carla had coffee all ready and everything.  She left pretty much right after that.  So, I got about half an hour to play with the kids before church with no stress at all.  We got to church on time (being late for church is a big stress of mine) and the kids were excited to get to class.  
<p />
The sermon was the traditional Father's Day "Your job is very important, don't slack" lesson.  It's so traditional, Grady, our preacher, even commented on it.  Pretty much Mother's Day sermon I've ever heard has been in praise and honor of mothers; very sweet and complimentary.  Father's Day is a bit different.  The sermons usually dwell on how we, as Fathers, usually drop the ball.  We're usually too caught up with work.  We're usually too impatient with the kids.  We usually pay enough attention to the kids.  Oh and by the way, "quality time" is really just a euphamism for spending more money than we should on some high-glitz entertainment.  At least Grady's openness about the double standard between Mother's Day and Father's Day makes the whole thing more palatable.  I don't really need a Sunday sermon to "blow sunshine" on me about what a great job I'm doing.  The truth is that all those things <em>are</em> true (or at least more true than I care for).  
<p />
It occurred to me that Father's Day is probably a better "New Year" than New Year's Day.  Everyone's into the resolutions on New Year's Day.  It's that whole "fresh start" thing going on.  Father's Day seems like a better time to "start over".  It's like a "paternal" New Year (go with me here; I'm trying to play off the whole "fiscal year" thing).  You get this reminder of what Father's should be (particularly with the example of the Father in Heaven).  You've got your kids all pumped up about you and telling you how much they love you.  Plus you typically get some quiet time to reflect on your goals and priorities.  
<p />
Although I didn't do it yesterday, I think I'm going to start making it a habbit to find some time for reflection each Father's Day.  I'm going to try and set some very specific goals over the next few days.  Maybe I'll post them here or on my TWiki as a method of public accountability.
<p />
Oh, I also got a nice nap in after lunch.  Any Sunday I can get a nap is a great Father's Day.
