--- 
title: The Tigris and the Euphrates Rivers
typo_id: 470
layout: post
---
This was an excellent <a href="http://www.raelity.org/archives/society/culture/mesopotamia.html" target="_top">blog</a> by <a href="http://www.raelity.org/archives" target="_top">raelity bytes</a>.  I too have often thought about the Garden of Eden while listening to the news lately.
<p />
<blockquote>
If you've turned on your television set or opened your daily newspaper over
the past days, you've no doubt come to recognize the region currently under 
an attack of "Shock and Awe" at a glance.  Detailed colourful maps, swirling
three-dimensional fly-throughs, satellite photographs, and live video are
shoved in your face at an alarming clip.  And these are peppered with icons
representing strikes, missiles, bombs, planes, ships, troops, refineries, 
oil fields, and labels designating points of interest, borders, regions, 
cities, and rivers.
<p />
Yet beneath the audio-visual din, I find my eyes and ears drawn to mention
of two particular points of orientation: the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.
Once, according to my old school books, the "cradle of civilization," 
Mesopotamia (meaning "between the rivers") sits quietly and unassumingly
in the background.
<p />
A Google for Mesopotamia turned up
<a href="http://www.mesopotamia.co.uk/" target="_top">this lovely resource</a> put together
by The British Museum.  One wonders what a Google for
<code>tigris</code> and <code>euphrates</code> will turn up in the
days and years to come.
<p />
</blockquote>
