--- 
title: A family day out
typo_id: 431
layout: post
---
Last week while I was in <a href="http://www.lathi.net/cgi-bin/blosxom.cgi/Commute/2003/4/14#20030414" target="_top">Cleveland</a> one of the guys there was talking about taking his family to one of the local aquariums.  That's something I really enjoy and thought my family would too.  It had been a <em>very</em> long time (like multiple years) since we had gone, so I thought it was high time we went again.  So, last Saturday we loaded the kids up first thing in the morning and headed down to the <span style='background : #FFFFCE;'><font color="#0000FF">NewportAquarium</font></span><a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/edit/Main/NewportAquarium?topicparent=Main.WebHome">?</a>.  It was a pretty fun day.  Tiffany enjoyed it not so much because she understood all the cool things she saw, but really because she was able to get out and walk around and look at new things.  For her, it was cool because it was new.  
<p />
Josh enjoyed it on several levels I think.  I think going reminded him of earlier times he's gone to various aquariums.  I think Josh has a certain longing for earlier days when he was the only child.  I don't think he wants to be a baby again.  It's not like me wishing I were young again.  It's more like wishing for the kind of attention he had when we didn't have two other babies taking up all our time and energy.  I guess I don't really wish I were 25 again.  All I really wish for is some of the benefits I had back then.  I like my life.  I love my kids.  I appreciate all the new things they do every day.  Sometimes I just wish I were thin, with lots of free time and extra money, like I used to be; but only with the family I have now, and the relationship Carla and I have now.  So, maybe Josh and my longing for the past is not so different.  Anyway, besides reminding him of previous trips to the aquariums, I think Josh really appreciated what it was he was seeing.  He asked really good questions about the different fish.
<p />
Even with the other two kids enjoying the aquarium, I think Justin had the richest experience.  It was all new to him.  I think he had been to an aquarium before, but not since he could actually see more than about three feet.  He didn't have the deeper understanding that Josh had.  He had the raw understanding of seeing strange things for real.  They have a tide pool area where workers let visitors touch some of the ocean creatures.  They had star fish (or "sea stars" as they wanted us to call them since they aren't really fish; as if a technicality like that is going to change years and years of tradition), crabs, and those really odd horeshoe crabs.  Josh was hesitant to touch them because he has weird fears of crabs.  Justing wanted to touch them because he's adventurous.  Josh actually touched it when he got the chance.  When the gal brought the crab over to Justin he had his arm out to touch it; however, when it got close the crab moved his legs and Justin freaked.  He literally screamed the scream of terror.  I've never seen or heard him do that before.  On the surface, I felt pretty badly for him.  At the same time, there's something pervertedly funny about a terrified child in a perfectly safe environment.
<p />
There was one other time that Justin got pretty spooked.  They have an alligator exhibit that is modeled after a cabin in the swamp.  They have a bridge that leads over the swamp area with split-rail banisters on either side to see from.  The split-rails are backed by plexiglass and parts of the floor of the bridge is also plexiglass.  As we walked over the bridge, one of the alligators (not too big, probably only four or five feet long) was floating in the water directly below the plexiglass window.  It was a great view and Josh really thought it was cool.  Justin wouldn't walk over the plexiglass.
<p />
Anyway, the day was really fun.  Even though I've highlighted two times Justin was scared, I think he had a fun day too.  Like all kids, he soaks up any quality time like that with Mom and Dad.  The day was well worth the $50 it cost to get in.
