--- 
title: "\"Road to Perdition\""
typo_id: 436
layout: post
---
It's hard to call "Road to Perdition" (staring Tom Hanks and Paul Newman) a "good" movie.  Tom Hanks plays Micheal Sullivan, a man who murders about 15 people in cold blood during this movie and it's implied he had murdered many people before.  Sullivan is "muscle" for Paul Newman's character as a town czar in this movie set in 1931.  Some bad stuff happens and Sullivan ends up on the run trying to protect his 12 year old son.  The movie is pretty rough and very frank about the types of lives these men live.  The movie is really about Sullivan and his relationship with his son.  Previous to this "bad stuff" it's implied that Sullivan isn't very close to his son.  His fear is that his son will grow up to be like him.  He shelters his son from the life he lives and is fairly strict on trying to keep his son on the straight and narrow.  There's a telling scene where Newman's character says, "The only thing certain is that none of us are going to make it to Heaven."  Sullivan's character replies, "Micheal [his son] can."  Newman then gives him the advice, "Do everything you can to make sure that happens."  Even with all the violence of the movie, religion plays a large part.  These men are "devout" Irish Catholics.  The movie is an interesting character study of violent men.  Performances of Hanks and Newman are top notch.  Technically the movie can't be called anything but "good" if not "excellent".  I can say you won't be wasting time or money by renting it.  
<p />
What I have a hard time saying is that the movie itself is "good".  It's hard to say what the movie's message is.  I guess that may be the movie's major short-coming.  It's not clear what you're walking away with.  The movie opens and closes with the son saying, "Some say Micheal Sullivan was a decent man.  Others say there was no good in him."  The movie tries to reconsile these two statements by demonstrating the violence of his life and the care and love buried in him for his son.The movie leaves you wondering wich is true and makes no attempt to tell you.
