--- 
title: The week of Birthdays
typo_id: 225
layout: post
---
Tiffany and I share the same Birthday.  Now that both of my parents are retired, they are able to visit more frequently.  So, for the first time in I think 15 years I got to spend my Birthday with my parents.  Of course, the main reason they cam up was for Tiffany's Birthday; but I'll take what I can get.  They came up last Wednesday and left Sunday after church.
<p />
We had a really nice visit.  I'll admit I didn't put in as many hours working as I usually do.  I knocked off work for my day job around 5:30 or so and didn't do any of my consulting work.  I enjoyed having dinner with the family and playing with the kids.  Thursday night we went out to eat at a local Tai restaurant.  The food was good as was the atmosphere.  Tiffany's party was on Saturday.  We had our good friends the Vicelli's as well as Robin Kenney over.  Since there were so few kids (six including my three) and they all knew each other pretty well we let the pace of the party move along slowly.  The kids played a lot and the adults got to visit and enjoy too.
<p />
Their visit was relaxing mainly because we didn't have big plans.  We just enjoyed being together.  It was also tiring for the kids though.  They got up a little bit earlier than they normally do, went to bed a little later, and didn't nap quite as long.  As a result, all three kids were more than ready for bed Sunday night.
<p />
Now I'm back in Cleveland and missing my family.  I'm trying to do my best to spend more time with Carla and the kids when I'm in Cincinnati.  I've been so guilty of working long hours even when I'm home.  I don't want my kids to remember me as "that guy that was always working".  I want them to remember I was able to take time out for them, fun times together, and that Carla and I love each other.  I think light weeks like last week goes a long way towards that.
