--- 
title: "\"The Mighty Ducks\""
typo_id: 217
layout: post
---
Josh's favorite show is Disney's "Lilo &amp; Stitch".  Our <a href="http://www.twcinci.com/Cable/DVR/index.asp" target="_top">DVR</a> record's it whenever it's showing.  Josh has told me many times that when he grows up he wants to be a "computer using scientist that makes potions and experiments".  I'm proud that my profession gets an honorable mention in that list.
<p />
Last night we watched <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=1:32593" target="_top">The Mighty Ducks</a> staring <a href="http://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p=avg&amp;sql=B89157" target="_top">Emilio Estevez</a>.  It's an old film from 1992 about a weasel of a lawyer who has to do community service by coaching a pee-wee hockey team.  Watching "real" movies (as Josh calls them) is something new for him.  He's pretty hung up on identifying the "bad guys".  He's also quite confused when the "good guys" do bad things.  Gordon Bombay, the main adult character in the film, starts out doing some pretty questionable things.  It was a good opportunity for me to shed some light on the whole "everyone does bad things" deal.  I was quite pleased that Bombay made a special effort to appologize to those he hurt when he realized how wrong he had been.
<p />
Once the Ducks started winning games, it gets pretty exciting.  You know Disney's drill.  They show everyone very exciting about doing well, play triumphant music, and generally get you all worked up.  At one point Josh says to me, "Maybe I'll be a scientist <em>and</em> a hockey player."  I suppose that sums the movie up.  It's good enough for my six year-old to change careers paths.
<p />
He asks me to teach him how to "ski".  So I clarify, "Do you want to 'ski'  or 'skate'?"  He says both.  So I explain to him, "Josh, I'm not very good at skating."  I should have seen this coming as often as I've said it to him, "Dad, it sounds like you need to practice."
