--- 
title: Software Patents and Amazon.com
typo_id: 226
layout: post
---
For those of you who have had this eirie feeling that something weird was happening, I've been thinking about software patents tonight.  Specifically Amazon.com and software patents.  If you don't know, I've been <a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/amazon.html" target="_top">boycotting Amazon.com</a> ever since they sued Barnes and Noble over their 1-click patent.  I've been thinking of giving up on this boycott.  I still think <a href="http://lpf.ai.mit.edu/Patents/against-software-patents.html" target="_top">software patents suck</a>.  However, I work for a company that has many.  Amazon has continued to patent many things are are silly (like drop shipping items as a gift to someone else and methods for customers to give feedback on items).  However, <a href="http://www.oreilly.com/pub/a/oreilly/ask_tim/2003/patents_1203.html" target="_top">they haven't sued anyone</a> over infringement since the infamous Barnes and Noble case.  Moreover, Amazon.com has been working very hard to actually innovate e-commerse in many ways.  However, many of their site's features are incremental improvements over both traditional brick and mortar business and existing e-commerse.  When I think of patentable ideas, I think not of evolutionary improvements but revolutionary improvements.  Eli Whitney's cotten jin was revolutionary.  Streamlining purchases by remembering customer data isn't.
<p />
Anyway, I'm thinking of giving up the boycott against Amazon.  Originally, the boycott was <a href="http://www.oreilly.com/pub/a/oreilly/ask_tim/2000/bezos_0300.html" target="_top">successful in getting Jeff Bezos to reconsider</a> his positoin on patents.  Tim O'Reilly has some really good notes on Bezos' transition from a patent proponent to a patent oppoenent.  Has Bezos done enough to make Richard M. Stallman lift his boycott?  No.  Has anything happened (possitive or negative) with relation to Amazon and patents in the last three years?  Not really.  The initial boycott and Tim O'Reilly managed to get Bezos to agree to not use his pattents offensively lightly.  I'm not sure there's much more to hope for.
<p />
Of course, the bad news is that the application for software patents and the abuse of the USPTO has gotten worse over the last three years.  This is really all that keeps me motivated to continue the boycott.  However, why single Amazon out?  There are lots of big players (including IBM) who abuse the patent system also.
<p />
So far, you won't see me linking to Amazon on this site yet.  But I have been thinking about it.
