--- 
title: "\"Freaky Friday\""
typo_id: 214
layout: post
---
Carla and I had our "official" Valentine's date last weekend.  It wasn't really planned that way.  She got a sitter for us and we went out for a nice dinner and good time together.  Then she got sick this week and wasn't feeling all that well.  So, we decided to play it quiet for the actual V-day.
<p />
As part of my being really sweet in lieu of actually taking Carla out on a date, I rented <a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0322330/" target="_top">Freaky Friday</a>.  Carla had really wanted to see the movie and was pleased I had rented it.  I enjoyed the film even though it was obviously campy.  There were several moments of open laughter and some touchy-feely emotional stuff too.  I thought both <a href="http://imdb.com/name/nm0000130/" target="_top">Jamie Lee Curtis</a> (who plays the Mom) and <a href="http://imdb.com/name/nm0517820/" target="_top">Lindsay Lohan</a> (who plays the daughter) did a good job of acting like the other when they were "switched".  
<p />
The film tried to be a little deeper than the <a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0076054/" target="_top">original Freaky Friday</a> by delving into the topic of what it's like to be a teenager today.  I don't know how accurate it is.  It's certainly dramatized and exagerated from what I remember in High School.  Of course, thinking like that is what produces generation gaps.  
<p />
The film does address perceptions and respect fairly well.  Everyone has a pre-concieved notion of everyone elses lives and motivations.  It turns out that all of these pre-concieved notions are wrong.  I think all of us can use a reminder to really pay attention to each other; especially if we can laugh while being reminded.
