--- 
title: "\"Joan of Arcadia\""
typo_id: 212
layout: post
---
<p />
Carla and I had heard some nice things about
<a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0367345/" target="_top">Joan of Archadia</a> and decided to
give it a try.  If you're not familiar with the series, Joan is a High
School girl who regularly talks with God.  God takes the form of
common everyday people and instructs her to do things that don't
always make sense.  I'm a <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/NewTestamentChristian">NewTestamentChristian</a>.  I'm more than a
little skeptical when Hollywood tries to deal with Christianity.  I'm
pleased with this show though.
<p />
We saw the "help the kids" episode.  Here's the brief plot of this
episode.  Joan is told to "help the kids".  This turns out to be a
day-care/art-theropy type thing for kids who's parents are attending
some group theropy for some type of family disorder.  Volunteering for
this causes her to miss a rock concert that her
best-friend/sort-of-item has asked her to.  Since she turns him down
he invites another girl and she struggles with jealousy even though
she doesn't really want to date this guy.  Meanwhile her dad (a cop)
struggles with emotional issues stemming from a hostage situation.
<p />
Sounds exciting doesn't it?  There was quite a bit I liked about the
show.  Obviously there are religious implications.  This isn't a show
like <a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0115083/" target="_top">7th Heaven</a> that's just
about a Christian family trying to live well in Modern times.  This is
a show that tries to tackle the question of what is God and how does
He work?
<p />
All in all I think they have done a good job.  The God on their show
is understanding, but not necessarily understandable.  He takes
different forms: a woman selling drinks at a concession stand, a
little child in Joan's day-care, an old man walking dogs.  Each time
He speaks to Joan it's unexpected; however, Joan immediately
recognizes who it is that's really speaking.  This is the one area
that greatly differs from my own Christian walk.  It's almost
impossible for me to know righ away when God is speaking to me (except
of course when I'm reading my Bible).
<p />
I liked the way Joan interacts with God.  Some might find it
blasphemous.  She complains.  She talks back.  She questions.  She
even calls Him names in frustration.  She then follows all of that up
with immediate obedience.  I think the Bible supports this type of
relationship.  It's ok to question God.  It's ok to complain.  I think
God wants us to talk with him about our real lives; to share what we
feel and think.  Yes, He knows these things already; but, He wants us
to come to Him to share.
<p />
I also liked how the characters treated each other.  They did things
wrong.  They hurt each other's feelings and behaved badly.  They also
recognized it and appologized.  That's something I don't feel I do
enough.  Of course, I screw up; all the time.  Sometime's I appologize
and sometimes I don't.  But the humility and honesty displayed in the
show was touching.  Is it "real"?  Probably not.  People just don't
act that way very often.  Should we?  Probably.
<p />
The other thing I liked is that it wasn't clear what the "job" was God
gave Joan to do or even why.  Even at the end of the show it wasn't
perfectly clear why God wanted her to do what she did.  You could see
good came of it; but it wasn't crystal clear.
<p />
The show is good.  It portrays people living messy lives trying to do
what God wants them to do.  That's always good to see; particularly
when they are successful.  It's also good to see a show that lets you
think about God and how He might be working in your life.
