--- 
title: It's not a White Christmas
typo_id: 233
layout: post
---
Josh got it in his head that Christmas was supposed to have snow.  Before we left Cincinnati it snowed on us.  Josh was pretty happy because that meant Christmas was coming.  The funny part is how tied snow and Christmas was in Josh's head.  When we got to South Carolina it was pretty warm.  I think our average high for the week was 60 degrees F.  Case and point, we went to the Columbus Zoo one night to see the lights.  It was chilly enough to wear a jacket, but not so that you had to wear a hat or mittens or anything.
<p />
Of course, there was no snow on the ground.  It didn't really upset Josh, but he couldn't understand why there was no snow on the ground.  To confuse things more, when we got home there was no snow on the ground either.  The kids love the snow.  In a way, I sometimes wish we lived a little farther North where we could get more snow.  I figure if you have to live in a cold winter you might as well get to play in the snow.  The tradeoff is you don't want to live somewhere that's bitterly cold all winter long (think Wisonsin here).  
<p />
What I want is a place where it's like 20 - 40 degrees F Monday through Thursday then drops to 15 - 30 degrees F on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday with snow each weekend.  That would let things be OK during the work week and fun on the weekends.  I guess that's what it's like to live in places like Denver just out of the mountains.  You live where it's lower down and doesn't snow quite as much, but take the weekend to drive up the mountains and play in the snow.
