--- 
title: "\"Oh the weather outside is frightful...\""
typo_id: 220
layout: post
---
What a weekend for snow storms.  On Friday afternoon I left Cleveland for Cincinnati at about 4:00pm.  It was snowing something fierce.  I drove on top of the snow for most of the trip home.  What's usually a three hour 45 minute trip took me just shy of six hours!
<p />
Then yesterday we got the biggest single day snow storm I can remember here in Cincinnati.  It snowed heavily for about five hours or so.  I'm not sure exactly how to measure it, but we got about 8" of snow.  On top of that, the top quarter inch froze last night.  
<p />
It was so cold yesterday.  With all the fresh snow, I couldn't keep from taking the kids out to play in it.  Tiffany and Justin enjoyed about 15 minutes of it.  Of course, it took us 15 minutes to get snow clothes on all the kids.  Well, we were out long enough for Carla to get pictures of us all.  
<p />
After that Josh and I went to our neighborhood park.  It's very close to one of the run-off basins for the neighborhood.  What a great hill!  One side is long and steep.  At the bottom, it doesn't go very long before it starts sloping up the other side.  So after a nice long run, the other side of the basin slows you down before you get near anything.  I got about three or four turns going down.  Josh did about 10 and then got too cold.  There's still lots of snow out today.  Maybe we can go back.  I understand Justin was pretty sad when he learned Josh and I weren't coming in when he did.
<p />
This morning I went out to shovel and nearly killed myself.  I'm just too out of shape to hadle that much exercise all at once.  It took me about two hours to shovel my driveway and sidewalk.
<p />
When I got done I was covered in sweat and my back was hurting badly.  All I could do was just collapse onto the floor and whine.  Of course, this is the well known "come play with me pose".  I don't think I was down on the floor half a minute before Tiffany brought her toys over and climbed on my chest.  There's just something more fun about playing with dominos when you can dump them on daddy's chest.
