--- 
title: Spider-Man 2
typo_id: 210
layout: post
---
<p />
I'm really angry right now.  I just tried to take my two boys to see
Spider-Man 2.  I know the film is rated PG-13 for violence.  I know my
boys are much younger than 13.  However, they've also been advertising
the heck out of the film in all the kids channels; at least
Nickelodeon, and Cartoon Network.  They advertise all the junk to sell
at restaurants and such.  At Wal-Mart there was a whole isle of
Spider-Man 2 toys.  There's Spider-Man 2 cereal.  Before the movie
they actually advertised on the big screen Spider-Man 2 tooth-paste
and tooth-brush.  "Spider-Man, Spider-Man, Spider-Man."  That's all my
kids hear.
<p />
The movie trailers I had seen looked intense.  I was a little uneasy
taking the boys.  However, they were so excited about seeing it.  Josh
has literally been counting down the days.  I almost <em>had</em> to take
them.  I suppose I could have refused.  There's no doubt Josh wouldn't
have understood why I wouldn't let him go.
<p />
Anyway, we went.  The first thing that set me at unease was the movie
trailers.  Every movie they advertised (while the preview was
"approved for all audiences"; they can't possibly mean that) will no
doubt be rated R.  One of them was yet another sequel to the "Chucky"
horror films!  Another one was Spawn III.  Another Tom Cruise's movie
where he's a hitman taking a taxi ride to kill a bunch of people.
<p />
So the stage was set.  Everything leading up to the film was bringing
the audience into a mood of violence and suspense.  So now we have the
scene where Octavious has the arms attached to his back.  The
experiment goes wrong.  Octavious' wife is killed by shards of glass
flying into her body in slow motion while she screams.  Then the
doctors try to cut off the mechanical arms in surgery.  It's like a
scene right out of a horror flick.  Chain saws, circular saws, non-stop
screaming, and these arms choking, dragging, throwing, and killing
everyone in the room.
<p />
My son lost it.  We left.  He's angry that he couldn't see the rest of
the film (even though we left with him crying almost uncontrollably).
I'm angry that this is what the film industry has come down to.
