--- 
title: Covered Bridge Photo Shoot
typo_id: 125
layout: post
---
This morning Britton Fraley and I did a photo shoot of the <a href="http://www.dalejtravis.com/bridge/ohio/htm/3500823.htm" target="_top">North Pole Rd Covered Bridge</a>.  I got up at 4:15am to meet Britton at 5am.  We were at the bridge by 6:30 and shot until about 8am.  I was able to get into work and at my desk by 9:45.
<p />
It was a really fun shoot.  We got there about 15 minutes after twilight.  The lighting was excellent.  Of course, I haven't had time to review my photos; but, I hope I've gotten one or two worth keeping.
<p />
Doing photography like this is a lot different than shooting my kids.  They are always creating interesting, charming, or funny things to photograph.  When we got on site this morning I was like, "Yep.  That's a covered bridge."  Once I got my camera out and started looking, lots of interesting things cropped up.  We could have spent another hour or two there for sure.
<p />
In fact, both of us thought we could easily have spent the whole day in the area.  There was lots of old barns to photograph, some interesting creek beds, and lots of scenes along the Ohio River near there.  It was a lot different view than my staid suburb.
<p />
There was another interesting aspect of the trip I didn't expect.  When we left Ripley, OH it was quite rural.  We quickly progressed through several typical small towns and villages along the Ohio.  We rode together, so Britton took us back to his house that's in a nice, old part of  Cincinnati.  Really, I think of Hyde Park as the suburbs of 50 - 75 years ago.  From there I drove back along the Ohio into downtown.  I felt like in the course of an hour or so I had traveled through about 50 years.  The transition from rural to urban was dramatic.
<p />
This was my second photo shoot with Britton.  The first was in <a href="http://www.cincinnati.com/visitorsguide/parks/051100_ault.html" target="_top">Ault Park</a>.  I don't think I've posted a link to <a href="http://home.lathi.net/gallery/2005/03-March/Ault%20Park/" target="_top">those pictures</a> yet.  I've only processed three.  I'm not sure how many others are worth keeping.
<p />
I'll post pictures from this morning as soon as I can.
