--- 
title: "\"I want to stay a kid\""
typo_id: 651
layout: post
---
Here's a discussion between Josh(7) and Justin(4) that I only caught the tail end.  I was doing my thing and became aware of Justin crying after I had sent them to bed.  He's coming down the stairs to me still crying.  These are great big sobs like he's the saddest boy in the world.

Justin (crying): "I don't want anymore parties!"

My wife sells "Tastefully Simple":http://tastefullysimple.com.  She's out tonight and I think maybe he's talking about her being away from home at her "parties".

Me: "What?"

Justin: "I don't want any more parties.  I don't want to get any older.  I just want to stay a kid."

Me(both surprised and starting to get a little upset): "What??? Josh, what have you been telling him?"

Josh(innocently like we're discussing the shade of green in grass): "What?  Nothing.  Just that one day we'll go to college and have to live away from home for five years and that when you're grown up you don't get presents at your Birthday party."

Justin(still crying): "I don't want to leave.  I want to stay here!  I want to stay a kid!"

The whole thing just broke my heart.

The stereotype is the younger sibling is always pestering and aggravating their older sibling.  I'm a little brother that got a lot of blame for annoying my big sister.  This is the reality.  Older siblings "innocently" torment their younger siblings.  I love all three of my kids.  (Most days) I wouldn't trade them for anything.  Justin adores Josh.  Josh does stuff like this all the time.  It's like he enjoys making Justin cry.  I don't understand it.
