--- 
title: What's wrong with this picture?
typo_id: 107
layout: post
---
Police "stealing" people's identity for a girl to work undercover as a stripper.  I just can't figure out what it is about <a href="http://www.officer.com/article/article.jsp?siteSection=5&#38;id=22852" target="_top">this story</a> that offends me the most.  Is it:
<ul>
<li> that police paid a Criminal Justice student $100 a night over three months to strip?
</li>
<li> that police spent three months in a strip club watching her strip while looking for liquor violations?
</li>
<li> the nonchalant and somewhat confused quote from an officer that says the girl seemed ashamed of what she was doing?
</li>
<li> that the police ultimately charged the girl with crimes involving the sting operation?
</li>
<li> that the County Prosector Gary Nasal excuses the whole thing because, "the result speaks for itself"? (As if the ends justifies the means?)
</li>
<li> or maybe that police twice used someone else's identity as part of their operation;
<ul>
<li> once taking a living person's driver's license and giving it to the girl to use as her name while stripping.
</li>
<li> once taking a dead person's ID to register for a web site where they could further monitor the stripping on-line.
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li> or could it be that an Ohio anti-identity-theft law gives law enforcement permission to use a person's identity in the course of an investigation?
</li>
</ul>
<p />
This whole thing just stinks.  Paying a college student intern to perform sexual acts that she "seemed ashamed of" borders on sexual harassment.  Giving her the driver's license of another, totally innocent girl to use as her undercover ID is just stupid.  I'd think that would open the police up to liability for defamation of character.  Hats off to the police in Troy, OH.
<p />
Why haven't I heard anything about law enforcement's ability to steal identities?  Who's can they steal?  Only ohio residents?  Can they use George Bush's ID?  Who ever thought this was needed much less a good idea?
<p />
But wait! There's more!  Here's how you can get a gig making $100/night (plus tips I'm sure) as a stripper!  The advertisement I'm looking at on the linked page above is for "Earn your CRIMINAL JUSTICE DEGREE online today... from the real-world experience of our professors."  In the context of this article that just sounds like a pimp trying to recruit more girls.
