--- 
title: Art, Talent, and Fear
typo_id: 780
layout: post
---
My buddy, "Britton Fraley":http://proof-of-concept.com pointed me to "Radiant Vista":http://www.radiantvista.com today.  What a wonderful website!  Most photo sites are either crap for design or over-the-top flash.  This one has a wonderful layout and design.  That's just what encouraged me to look around.  It's the content that has me so excited.

I feel like the site could use a little more "about me" stuff.  I didn't really know what to expect as I was wandering around.  Most of the site is Quicktime videos.  The "Daily Critiques":http://www.radiantvista.com/dailyCritique/index.php are videos of the site contributors reviewing a photo.  I like hearing their voice describe their impressions and critique.  I like seeing their mouse pointer move about the image highlighting what they are talking about.  I like seeing the improvements to the photos as they make simple adjustments to improve the image.

There is also a nice 16 minute video tutorial called, "A Primer on Composition":http://www.radiantvista.com/media/tutorials/download.php?tutorialID=9.  Again, the mix of voice, images, and pointer is used for excellent effect.

But I'm saving the best part to last.  There's a PDF aticle on "The Myth of Talent":http://www.radiantvista.com/media/articles/radiantVista_ar_mythOfTalent.pdf that pushed me to ecto to write this note.  It's an excellent affirmation of everything I had hoped about art.

<blockquote>...the truth about talent is this -- *talent is a set of skills you 
develop over time through desire*.</blockquote>

I'm an aspiring photographer.  By no means am I good.  I'm pleased to say my work has improved over the last year though.  When people see me they don't say "artist".  My past is not littered with examples of great works of art.  By all rights I should just admit I'm not a talented photographer and stick to what I am good at: programming.  But this article gives me hope.

He talks about why we buy into the myth that talent is a "natural ability of a superior quality".  I agree with the author, Craig M. Tanner, the biggest reason is fear.

<blockquote>
Being labeled talented only means we have survived being untalented.
</blockquote>

So for some period of time we have to be untalented.  It's the fear of doing badly that keeps us from "surviving being untalented".  I've "talked about this fear meme":http://blog.lathi.net/articles/2005/04/22/red before.  When I was taking photography classes at the "University of Cincinnati Communiversity":http://www.uc.edu/ace/commu/, my instructor said that fear is the opposite of creativity.  That was a powerful thought.  This article on talent's talk about fear is further reenforcement.

Even if you don't think of yourself as an "artist" or want to be a photographer, I highly recommend this article.


