--- 
title: Just Another Lemming
typo_id: 178
layout: post
---
I did something this weekend I thought I'd never do: I bought a copy of Windows XP and installed it.  I tried to talk my Dad into buying a <a href="http://apple.com/macmini/" target="_top">Mac mini</a> without success.  He didn't want to spend the money on a new machine when the one he had worked just fine.  However, he did want it upgraded.  Well, maybe upgrading it was my idea.  I don't really remember.  He and mom were complaining of things not working and generally being slow.  Upgrading seemed like the thing to do.
<p />
First, some background.  I built this machine for them from parts about five years ago.  It's got a Slot A Athlon 600MHz processor and the original 4G disk.  The first OS was Windows 95.  I think my Dad upgraded it to Windows 98se.  He had upgraded the CD-ROM to get a CD-RW, but his CD burner quit working.  He had tried buying a new one, but it didn't install properly.
<p />
They were visiting for the weekend, so I told him to bring the computer up with them.  I attributed some of their slowness to a junked up registry.  I know they've had at least one virus infestation.  I don't know if they've had any other spyware.  They only use dial-up, so there's some amount of protection from port scanners.  The flip side is doing Windows updates over dial-up just isn't feasible.  
<p />
Anyway, with the unknown state of their machine, I decided to backup data and reformat the hard drive.  I got XP installed OK.  It was painfully slow.  I threw in a spare NIC to hook it up to my home LAN.  I downloaded all the Windows updates and the updates for Norton's Anti-Virus.  I also downloaded <a href="http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/" target="_top">Firefox</a> and made that the default browser; also <a href="http://www.mozilla.org/products/thunderbird/" target="_top">Thunderbird</a> and made that the default mail client.  I setup Thunderbird and dial-up networking for their ISP back home.  My Mom also asked about instant messaging.  So, I downloaded and installed <a href="http://gaim.sourceforge.net/win32/index.php" target="_top">Windows Gaim</a> and registered an AIM nick for her.  My Mom's a retired secretary, she's more than a little familiar with MS Office.  I tried to talk her into using <a href="http://openoffice.org" target="_top">Open Office</a>, but she had a bootleg version of Office 2000 she wanted installed.
<p />
The only other application they needed installed was the Camedia software that came with their Olympus camera.  The version they have is a stripped down version of a $50 program.  It's OK, but not great.  In general, those types of applications that come with your camera stink.  With the recent announcement of <a href="http://www.picasa.com/" target="_top">Picasa</a> from Google, I was looking for an excuse to try it out.  Both my Mom and I were quite impressed.  It's certainly better than the software she had, and probably as good or better than my experience with iPhoto 4.
<p />
I was still frustrated by how poorly the system performed overall.  Turns out they only had 96MB of RAM; way too little.  I did some scavenging of the computer skeletons around my house and came up with a 256MB and three 64MB DIMMs.  There were only three memory banks, so I maxed it out with what I had.  Windows XP almost immediately starting crashing in a most volatile way.  I assume that meant some of my memory had gone bad.  I tried doing the mix-n-match to maximize how much working memory I could get in it.  I was tired though and ended up just getting the 256MB DIMM to work reliably.
<p />
So, I now have a modicum of experience in XP.  I like the interface better than the 95/98 interface.  The browser is simplified quite a bit.  I don't know enough about UI to know if it's really easier to use.  At the least it's geared toward novice type users.  I do think the color scheme is clownish.  This is nothing on XP, but I was particularly annoyed to see the paperclip in Office 2000 again.  I thought I had seen the last of that annoying bug.
