--- 
title: Cincinnati Museum Center
typo_id: 141
layout: post
---
Carla was out all day Saturday with  a scrap booking thing.  In the afternoon I took the kids to the <a href="http://www.cincymuseum.org/" target="_top">Cincinnati Museum Center</a>.  They have a great kids area that's basically the best indoor play ground with some learning thrown in.  Carla bought a membership that lets us get in free.  We don't go nearly enough.  There's a lot of great stuff there.  We spent about four hours doing different stuff.  I think the kids would have spent the entire four hours at any one of the centers.  
<p />
I took about 130 photographs and culled out about 80 obviously bad ones.  At <span style='background : #FFFFCE;'><font color="#0000FF">3 minutes per photo</font></span><a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/edit/Main/PhotographyWorkflow?topicparent=Main.WebHome">?</a> that means I've got just under three hours of post-processing to get the photos on-line.  I really wish I could drop that down to about 1 minute per photo.  It just takes me a while to adjust the conversion settings for each photo.  I'm shooting in my camera's RAW format mainly because that allows me to "save" some marginal shots.  It also allows me to do a better job enhancing photos that are good to be excellent.  The downside is the 3 minutes/photo to convert into a commonly usable format.
<p />
<strong>UPDATE:</strong> Here's the entire <a href="http://home.lathi.net/gallery/2005/03-March/CMC/JPEG/" target="_top">album</a> of photos from the day.
