--- 
title: Rearranging Furniture
typo_id: 140
layout: post
---
We finally made a move last night we'd been planning for a long time.  When we first moved into this house, we agreed to let my wife have our fourth bedroom as her playroom (meaning crafts, scrap booking, etc).  I had put my very large desk down in the basement and did my moonlighting from there.  After about a year, I started telecommuting for my day-job half-time and needed a better working environment.  So, Carla lost her room and I moved my stuff up to the fourth bed room.  Now that I'm not telecommuting anymore, Carla wanted her room back.  
<p />
In the mean time, we had gotten Carla a fairly large roll-top desk.  About the same time I quit telecommuting we also got her a nice LCD display.  So, in addition to not working as many hours at my desk I was also using Carla's quite a bit because of the nice display!  Since our basement is pretty much a pit right now I wasn't too excited about moving my desk back down there until we got around to finishing it off.  So, I decided to get rid of my desk and just keep using Carla's.  I had someone from church who needed a desk so I gave it to them if they'd come get it.
<p />
Last night we had a group of friends over for a Bible study.  This is the first time in a couple months the group has met at our hose.  So, I got some of the guys to help me move the desk into the fourth bedroom.  Even taken apart (the top comes off in one piece leaving two pedestals) it's heavy and difficult to maneuver.  The desk had been down in the living room and needed to move up stairs.
<p />
The net result is that our living room is now much larger!  We rearranged our other furniture to give the greatest amount of open space.  I'm sure the kids will like it.  Also, the room up stairs got quite a bit smaller.  When we got rid of my desk from out of there, all the stuff that was in it is basically still piled up in the corner.  Plus we pulled all the stuff out of Carla's desk before we moved it.  So, that room will still need a lot of work to get it in shape again.
<p />
Changes like this are pretty good.  It's nice to get a different feel for our house.  Carla plans to do a lot of painting this summer too.  I'm looking forward to the results.
