--- 
title: After Rails Day
typo_id: 96
layout: post
---
<a href="http://railsday.com" target="_top">Rails Day 2005</a> is over.  I have mixed emotions about the whole day.  It's one of the more unique experiences of my professional life.  I learned a great deal about Rails, teamwork, and agile development.  From that perspective, the day was a huge success.  I'd like to say the day was fun, but it was actually quite stressful.  Maybe it was a good stress.  It's hard for me to say it <em>wasn't</em> fun too.
<p />
My team mates were <a href="http://elitists.net" target="_top">Scott Barron</a> and <a href="http://objectwind.com" target="_top">Mark Windholtz</a>.  We had a great team.  I had jotted down a bunch of "requirements" early last week.  On Thursday night, the three of us met in a phone conference to go over them.  Thanks mostly to Mark's design experience we did a fairly dramatic restructure of the requirements for the better.  On Saturday morning, Mark transfered these to 18 3x5 cards.
<p />
The contest ran from 12:00 am EST on Saturday through 12:00am EST on Sunday.  My day began at about 6:30am on Saturday.  I was responsible for breakfast snacks, so after getting dressed I spent about 30 minutes at Kroger's shopping.  Thanks to <a href="http://fusionalliance.com" target="_top">Fusion Alliance</a> for allowing me to expense that shopping trip!  I managed to get down to our meeting place (thanks to Mark Mansour, my manager, for arranging that location for us) at about 7:30am.  There was already four of the six of us there by then.  By 8:00am we had the networking and power all setup with the two teams in their respective spots.
<p />
  We coded straight from about 8:00am until about 1:00am Sunday morning (there was a one hour extension due to availability of the contest server).  We did 16 story cards (roughly one requirement); six of which we created that day.  That leaves eight of our original story cards undone.  We lost a lot of time to user account management.  That's a shame because the purpose of the project was photo management and not user management.  We used some "off the shelf" generated code and spent too much time debugging it instead of chucking it.  Besides user management, we got some simple image handling done.  We could upload images, do some EXIF extraction, and tag the images with keywords.  We had some album handling done, but needed more work on better relating images to albums.  We didn't get to any of the real cool stuff of searching by keywords, smart albums, or relating images based on their meta-data in general.
<p />
Realistically we needed another full day of coding.  In part, Rails Day was an experiment to see if it is possible to create a complete web application in 24 hours.  I think we answered that it's not quite possible at this time.  I could be shown wrong of course.  There were a lot of projects.  I image there are some super stars out there that did some awesome work.  Tuesday night at the XP-Cincinnati User's Group I'll be giving a talk on <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/RailsDayLessonsLearned">RailsDayLessonsLearned</a>.
