--- 
title: There but by the grace of God go I...
typo_id: 92
layout: post
---
Sometimes I hear things that make me so thankful for how blessed I am.  I was listening to a story on NPR's Morning Edition about how families have been encouraged to break off all communication with mentally retarded children when they're placed in a group home.  They were interviewing a guy remembering what happened when his sister, Molly, was sent away.  He said he kept asking his parents, "Where's Molly?"  They'd never answer.  It wasn't until after his father died that he found her name, birthday, and SSN.  He was able to find her fairly easy.
<p />
What struck me about this story is the very real pain the family went through during this time; ignoring whether their decision was right or wrong or whether the advice was good or bad.  There are lots of families in pain.  My family has had problems over the years.  Some of them were quite painful.  Relatively speaking though, our family is quite blessed.  All of our problems were of our own making.  With the help of God we have survived, overcome, and grown.  I'm so thankful we don't have problems that are lifelong and not overcome-able.
<p />
One of the men I respect most at church is about 40 years old with three kids under 10.  He was diagnosed with MS last year.  My friend at work has a child with Autism.  Another family from church had a child die from SIDs.  Several of my friends are dealing with parents with terminal diseases.
<p />
I guess most of those people I've listed above would probably object to me saying these problems aren't overcome-able.  You can overcome in spirit, but the issues don't go away.  I see so many people struggling and in pain.  It makes me both sad and thankful.  There's no real protection from calamity.  Christians, non-Christians, faithful, unfaithful, agnostic, atheistic: all are subject to trouble.  
<p />
I pray daily that God will watch over my family and keep us safe.  I struggle with the meaning, purpose and results from prayer.  I've studied the subject to some extent.  I don't know why God chooses to answer some prayer and not other.  I still pray.  I pray for specific things and general things.  I pray for God to protect my family and I pray for the strength, peace, and patience to handle the struggles I do have.  I've had prayer answered and prayer not answered.  I should do a better job of journaling my prayer and my perception of God's response.
<p />
I didn't intend to launch into an essay on prayer.  It just seems to come up often.  My main point is I feel sympathy for families in pain and I'm thankful God has protected us from such calamity.
