--- 
title: Something to Shoot
typo_id: 176
layout: post
---
Just last night I was complaining on one of the photography forums about not having anything to shoot.  I want to be shooting during the week.  I get home after sunset and leave before sunrise.  Even when it's lit on the weekends, all we have right now is dreary mud and sticks of trees.
<p />
Just this morning I was greeted with two surprises.  First was the pre-dawn display as I left for work.  I was pretty much right on time without a moment to spare to catch my 7:16am bus downtown.  When I got outside it was still a way from sunrise, but the just past full moon was still out.  The sky was mostly clear with wisps of clouds lit up.  Down on the ground the remnants of snow were glowing a soft blue against the dark grass peeking through.  When I saw it all, I knew it was a photographic moment.  I should have skipped the early bus and shot some photographs.  There's a later bus at 7:45am I could have caught.  That would have given me a good 30 minutes to get some photos.  I didn't though.  Next time I will...
<p />
The second thing is an article, <a href="http://photographic.com/phototechniques/0105faculty/" target="_top">How to Stay Motivated in Photography</a> I found from <a href="http://digitalphotography.weblogsinc.com/entry/1234000900028980/" target="_top">The Digital Photography Weblog</a>:
<p />
<blockquote>
Taking pictures during the summer is a wonderful experience. You&#8217;re wandering around in a tee shirt while the sun illuminates your images. The warm weather draws other similar-minded folks and this camaraderie motivates and inspires you. In the fall, the changing colors and crispness of the autumn air are heady&#8212;you can&#8217;t wait to get outside again with a camera. Your weekends are spent framing shots, exploring color, and developing pictures. Now this is lovin&#8217; photography!
<p />
And then the winter hits. The holidays take up your time and energy. The weather may turn cold, muggy and dim. Getting up for a sunrise is unthinkable when compared to staying in your warm bed. Standing outside shivering is no fun, and it&#8217;s hard to press the shutter release while wearing mittens. You&#8217;re overwhelmed by too much work, too little exercise, and too little inspiration.
Your enthusiasm for making photographs doesn&#8217;t have to depend on the season. But a lot of folks do hit a lull at the beginning of the year. So much is happening that seems to tire you out, or there may be little to inspire you photographically. So how do you rekindle that &#8220;lovin&#8217; feeling?&#8221;
</blockquote>
<p />
Oh, and the other good news: Carla decided she's not going to take the kids to JC Penny's for a portrait setting.  I had seen some portraits done at one of the big discount stores recently.  With my new critical eye, I found them severely lacking even with their superior equipment.  So I'm glad we're going to try and do the portraits ourselves at home.  Actually, Carla wants to do them.  So, I'll stay out of the way and let her experiment.  On a related note, I had ordered <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/2880466873/qid=1106230873/sr=8-1/ref=sr_8_xs_ap_i1_xgl14/103-7862471-1023030?v=glance&#38;s=books&#38;n=507846" target="_top">The Perfect Portair Guide</a> on a recommendation from someone (sorry don't remember who) on <a href="http://planet.photogeeks.org/" target="_top">#photography</a>.  It's supposed to arrive this week!
