--- 
title: Gifted vs. Passion
typo_id: 821
layout: post
---
Discussions of talent vs. learned skill draw me in like a moth to the flame.  I regularly get beat up over this, but I sincerely believe that natural talent or "giftedness" is over rated.  That's why when Pulitzer Prize winning photojournalist David J. Leeson talks about the subject in a piece called "The Voice Inside":http://blog.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=blog.view&friendID=17274714&blogID=70487541, I'm inclined to listen.  When he supports my own thoughts, I'm inclined to post about it!

<blockquote><p>In fact, I have often said of my own life and career that I have always learned more from defeat than I ever did from victory. To win is an odd form of loss. I've seen it wreck young photojournalists who win big awards. Perhaps it is the mistaken sense of entitlement that ultimately ruins them - a belief that such things are supposed to happen to them. And when they don't, they are left with no foundation from a lifetime of defeats. They know only the hollow sound of winning. A sword is forged in fire.</p>

<p>That's where passion enters. I do not believe I was endowed with a special gift for something. Rather it was through hard work, determination, divine guidance and raw passion that allowed me the experience of a lifetime, to live as a photojournalist and travel the world with a singular purpose. All I ever wanted was to make a difference. I had my chance and I believe there is more to come.</p>
</blockquote>

This essay strikes me as similar to Craig Tanner's "The Myth of Talent":http://www.radiantvista.com/media/articles/radiantVista_ar_mythOfTalent.pdf.  Both are highly skilled and acclaimed artists, but from different genres.  Both have attributed their success to learning from failures and hard work.  I recommend reading both articles.

See also my previous articles on this topic: "Art, Talent, and Fear":http://blog.lathi.net/articles/2005/11/09/art-talent-and-fear, and "Red":http://blog.lathi.net/articles/2005/04/22/red
