--- 
title: I Hate Printing
typo_id: 119
layout: post
---
I have a long string of disappointing relationships with a variety of printers.  Maybe this isn't a problem on Windows.  I don't know, I've never done any serious printing on Windows.  Up until last Fall, I was 100% Linux.  Printing was never trivial.  Sure, I could get cups to print to my deskjet at home; but I couldn't get it to print to the laser at work (or vice versa).  I can't count the number of hours I wasted trying to get simple printing working.  Eventually, I convinced myself that printing wasn't important and pretty much gave up.  If someone wanted me to have a hard copy, they'd have to print it for me themselves.
<p />
Mixed in with that is hardware problems.  Honestly, this may really be software problems too.  It's hard to tell where software ends and hardware begins.  One problem I've had fairly consistently is that photos don't finish printing.  For whatever reason, about half way through the photo it just stops.  What's frustrating is the other day I printed two photos on the same page.  The first one didn't complete and the second one did!  This may be a USB printing issue, I don't know.
<p />
A while back I bought an <a href="http://www.epson.com/cgi-bin/Store/consumer/consDetail.jsp?oid=22966687" target="_top">Epson Stylus Photo 820</a>.  I think this was a lemon right out of the box.  It was purported to have good Linux support, but I don't think I ever got more than four or five good photos out of it.  In addition to the half-prints it also had tinting problems as well.  I replaced the printer with some HP photo inkjet that I was pretty happy with (particularly after <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/SwitchingToMacOSX">SwitchingToMacOSX</a>).  In explicably, one day the print head jammed -- never to print again.
<p />
I replaced that HP with an HP All-in-One 2400.  Carla (for the first time) loves this printer.  She mainly likes that she can make copies on it.  We've actually made a couple faxes on it too.  I did some excellent printing on it.  One of my favorite photos right now is this one of the <a href="http://home.lathi.net/gallery/2004/11-November/Thanksgiving%20Week/Beach/041123_079r2.jpg" target="_top">kids at the beach feeding sea gulls</a>.  I printed out an 8" x 10" for myself and my parents that is stunning.  I also printed about 100 copies of our Christmas Collage.  All very good.
<p />
And now I have Photoshop.  I made this <a href="http://home.lathi.net/gallery/2005/03-March/Tent/JPEG/2005-03-22_01-crop.jpg" target="_top">crop of the kids in their tent</a> last night I was really happy with.  Since Carla had been gone all evening, she hadn't seen the tent up in the boy's room and hadn't seen this photo yet.  I was hoping to surprise her with a nice 5" x 7" print.  Two hours later, all I had was mediocre to poor prints.  I even tried reviving my old Epson 820 to no avail.  The print heads on that one were too long unused and couldn't really be cleaned very well.  
<p />
I think the problem is that my HP 2400 is trying to be too helpful.  I've done all the work in Photoshop to get the image "developed" the way I want.  I pass it off to the print driver and it does all kinds of saturation, contrast, and even sharpening on it too.  Try as I might, I couldn't convince the print driver to just leave the image alone and print what I gave it.  I guess it's fairly typical to have printing problems when you first start using <a href="http://www.lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/MonitorCalibration" target="_top">color management</a>.  
<p />
In all the reading I've done on color management, I'm not really seeing much mention of the HP printers.  I suspect they may simply not work in a color managed workflow.  I don't do a lot of printing.  Carla likes to get prints from Costco to scrapbook.  I prefer to just print the image out to standard sizes for my desk or as gifts for family.  But I don't really feel like many of my photos are worth the time, money, and aggravation to print.  Hopefully that changes as my photography improves.  I'd like to think I could get one good photo of my kids each month.  
<p />
If my HP is going to be this cranky to print from Photoshop, it makes me want to get another printer.  The <a href="http://www.epson.com/cgi-bin/Store/consumer/consDetail.jsp?BV_UseBVCookie=yes&#38;oid=37472319" target="_top">Epson R800</a> is the printer of choice among photography enthusiasts at a cool $400 or so.  Of course, at the volume I'm talking about printing it's probably cheaper to just send all my prints out.  That doesn't solve the need for instant gratification though.   Ugh! I hate printing!
