--- 
title: Photography Challenges of Being a Dad
typo_id: 93
layout: post
---
Since I can't assign one blog post to the two categories, I decided to split my <a href="http://lathi.net/diary/Family/yay_for_friends.html" target="_top">last post</a> up.  I was out hiking with my friend and a bunch of kids by the Little Miami river last night and did a little bit of fishing.  Overall I'm happy with the shoot.  I shot 69 photos and ended up with 29 I didn't throw away and 14 better than average.  Here's the <a href="http://home.lathi.net/gallery/2005/06-June/Fishing%20at%20the%20Little%20Miami/JPEG/" target="_top">gallery album</a>.
<p />
This was a challenging shoot for a couple reasons.  First, it was between 7:00pm and 8:45pm so light was good but fading fast.  
<p />
Second, I only took my 50mm/F1.8 with me and pretty much just left it at F1.8.  I guess I probably should have shot in Aperture Priority mode since that would have gotten my exposure right more than not.  Without a zoom lens, I was having to move around a lot to get the composure I wanted.  The rocky ground make this a little tricky.  I probably should have had my 28-135mm/3.5-5.6 with me instead.  The zoom would have been handy.  However, I really wanted the extra stops of light with F1.8.  Ideally, I could have had the Tamron 28-75/2.8 and been fine.
<p />
Third, I <em>did</em> have Dad and supervisor duties too.  So, in addition to trying to see shots and get them, I had to make sure kids weren't falling down on the rocks or in the river, had worms on their hooks or weren't tangled up, and stayed out of the Poison Ivy.
