--- 
title: Portable Media Archives
typo_id: 80
layout: post
---
So Apple has a $129 1GB iPod Shuffle.  It seems like a really good price for a cool product.  My problem with portable music players is that I don't want to have to choose in advance what music to carry with me.  Sometimes I decide it's a Led Zeppelin day.  I might not decide that until after I get to work.  The other day I thought it was going to be a Led Zep day, but it ended up being an Indigo Girls day.  The point is, I don't want to think in advance what music to carry around with me.
<p />
Does that mean I just need to get a regular iPod?  Right now I have 13GB of MP3s.  There are quite a few CDs on my wish list.  I'd hate to buy a 20G iPod and then run out of room.
<p />
The other thing is photos.  I have over 20G of photos in my archive right now.  That's likely to grow rapidly.  I'm already to the point where I can't keep all my photos on my <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/PowerBook">PowerBook</a>.  I have to archive those onto a <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/HomeFileServer">HomeFileServer</a> and only keep recent photos with me.
<p />
iPods are really expensive too.  It's nearly impossible for me to justify $300 - $500 for a 30 - 60GB drive.
<p />
Anyway, we're in this continual race between portable data storage and the archives of the data we'd like to store.  What happens when I start (finish) ripping all my DVDs to MP4s to carry around ("No, I want to watch <em>Scooby Doo 1</em> not _Scooby Doo 2_" I can hear my kids saying)?
<p />
I could put a "big honk'n" disk in my <a href="http://lathi.net/twiki-bin/view/Main/PowerBook">PowerBook</a>, but that's not the best form factor to carry around...  Oh well.  I'll just complain here and not do anything.
