--- 
title: True Fashion Ignorance
typo_id: 820
layout: post
---
So my wife, Carla, is dissing my "sense of fashion":http://carla.lathi.net/articles/2005/12/07/scottevest.  The sad part is that my poor boys are inheriting the same thing.  I'm going to give three examples here, but there are countless I could include...

A few weeks ago Carla has laid out clothes for the boys to wear.  We're heading to a "Christmas Cruise":http://home.lathi.net/gallery/2005/12-December/Xmas%20Cruise/JPEG/ as a holiday work event.  Turns out my youngest boy, Justin, puts his sweater on and then puts his turtle-neck on over the sweater.  Neither Carla nor I caught it until it was almost time to go.  You think, "OK, he's just five.  How cute."  Well, my eight year old boy did the exact same thing just this week.

Tonight we're heading out to some friends house for dinner.  Carla sends Justin up to change clothes.  He comes to check with me, "Do I look good?"  You always want to answer that with "yes", but I noticed he was wearing sweat pants with his nice shirt.  So I tell him, "That's a nice shirt, but you need to put on jeans."  About two minutes later he comes back with his shirt on and his sweat pants around his ankles.  "Do I leave these on?"  I reply, "Leave you shirt on and put on some jeans."  He persists, "Do I leave these pants on?"  I'm thinking, "What's he going to do? Put jeans on over his sweats?"

I'm not sure why my boys have a fundamental lack of understanding about getting dressed or what's appropriate attire to what events.  My daughter, Tiffany, who's just shy of four has pretty good tastes in clothes.  All the time she corrects me, "Daddy, that doesn't match!"  Just now she asked me, "Do these shoes go with this outfit?"  Truly fashion aware.
