--- 
title: Guantanamo Detainees on Hunger Strike
typo_id: 643
layout: post
---
Unbeknownst to US news agencies, "enemy combatants" in Guantanamo are on a hunger strike -- for the last month.  Granted, I'm not much of a news freak.  My buddy, "Britton Fraley":http://www.proof-of-concept.com/, is always pestering me that I should do more to catch up.  So, I've subscribed to the "BBC RSS Feed":http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/3223484.stm.

That's where I learned about the hunger strike.

<blockquote>
A lawyer said the inmates were prepared to strike until they got a fair hearing and humane treatment or died.
</blockquote>

Forsaking my good Republican upbringing, I think the situation in Guantanamo is getting out of hand.  The reason I'm posting about this though is that it appears the US news media isn't reporting the hunger strike.  A Google News "search for 'hunger strike guantanamo'":http://news.google.com/news?lr=&tab=fn&ie=UTF-8&q=hunger+strike+guantanamo&btnG=Search+News doesn't show any hits from a national US news agency.  It appears a few (two in NYC, the Boston Globe, and a brief mention in Amarillo, TX) local US news agencies have reported it as have a handful of special interest groups.

Is Guantanamo considered "not news" by CNN?  I thought they were the liberal bunch.  What about the New York Times?  I can understand why Fox is quiet about it.  I'm just really surprised this hasn't been reported more.

I guess this is one reason why I don't really follow mainstream news: it's hard to know who's a good source of information.  I suppose what I'm supposed to do is follow them all and draw my own conclusions about what the "real news" is.  I just don't have time for that though.
<!-- technorati tags start --><p style="text-align:right;font-size:10px;">Technorati Tags: <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/Guantanamo" rel="tag">Guantanamo</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/Hunger Strike" rel="tag">Hunger Strike</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/News" rel="tag">News</a></p><!-- technorati tags end -->
