--- 
title: Black Sci-Fi Writers and White Sci-Fi Writers
typo_id: 861
layout: post
---
This story touched me, but I'm not totally sure what I want to say about it:

<a href="http://www.boingboing.net/2006/01/30/black_sf_writers_and.html">Black sf writers and white sf</a>:

<blockquote>

Pam's a talented science fiction writer in her own right, and her discussion of her journey from being a black kid watching an all-white science fiction universe on her TV, to discovering Earthsea, to her career as a writer, to the betrayal she felt at the adaptation of Earthsea is moving and eloquent.





<blockquote>

Usually it would be just me in the basement sprawled on the floor surrounded by snacks, Legos and books to read during the commercials. If he was off shift, sometimes Dad would come down and join me in his leather recliner by the stairs. Every once in a while Mom called down from the kitchen Are you letting her watch those weird things? And we'd lie in unison, No. If she came down to check for herself, Dad would get in trouble.



Dad had his own names for the movies.<br />

What's this? 'Escape to a White Planet?<br />

It's called 'When Worlds Collide.' I'm sure I sounded indignant.<br />

'Mars Kills the White People.' I love this one.<br />

Daaaaad. It says it right there. 'War of the Worlds'. I know I sighed heavily, but was careful to turn back to the tv before rolling my eyes.<br />



Once he asked me which was more real, the movie or the skits between. I didn't get it, and told him that they were both stories, so they were both fake. He didn't bring it up again until a skit came on. I can't remember if it was a 'Soulman' skit or one of the caveman gags (the cavemen were multicultural &mdash; basic white, Polish, Italian, and black). But I remember Dad saying, how come you never see anybody like that in the stories you like? And I remember answering, maybe they didn't have black people back then. He said there's always been black people. I said but black people can't be wizards and space people and they can't fight evil, so they can't be in the story. When he didn't say anything back I turned around. He was in full recline mode in his chair and he was very still, looking at me. He didn't say anything else.

</blockquote>


<a href="http://www.infinitematrix.net/faq/essays/noles.html">Link</a>

</blockquote>
