--- 
title: Explaining Social Places
typo_id: 940
layout: post
---
I had a conversation with a cousin of mine this weekend about her teenage kids using a social networking site.  I think it was facebook, but it could have been myspace.  She didn't really know.  She demonstrated some of the same "I don't get it" mentality that Bill O'Reilly does in "this video":http://youtube.com/watch?v=0Nfyw2KYHWw. (thanks for the "link":http://www.anarchogeek.com/articles/2006/04/05/danah-on-the-oreilly-factor)

"Danah Boyd":http://www.danah.org/ is a PhD student at UC Berkeley.  O'Reilly introduces her as an "anthropologist studying the Internet."  The story of the day is some 16 year old girl who was arrested for child pornography by publishing photos of herself on myspace.  Bill has Danah on to explain what this stuff is all about.  She really does do a pretty good job.  I'm not an O'Reilly fan and almost never watch the show; however, I hope he has her on more often to explain that intarweb thing more often.

She said something really interesting about teenagers and social web sites.  Bill asked her why they spend so much time on the web talking to their friends.  Why not meet in person?  Her response was that teenagers use many mediums to chat and hang out with their friends: phones, IM, and social networks.  She said they would probably prefer to hang out in real space; but many parents don't allow them to troll the neighborhood (my words) for fear of their safety.  

It's an interesting loop.  As a parent I worry a great deal about just letting my kids ride their bikes where ever.  When I was a kid, we did.  The neighborhood was pretty much mine to roam.  So, we keep our kids home to keep them safe.  Kids wanting to hang out with kids, they turn to the Internet to socialize.  But now we're afraid (and rightly so) of the same people who may harm our kids physically harming them online.
